A 52-year-old female presented to the Department of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery with a painless swelling in the floor of the mouth on the right side since 1-year, with no obvious increase in size. The swelling was not associated with any changes in salivation, but she had difficulty in articulation due to its size. Her medical history was insignificant. She had no history of tobacco use or any other adverse habits.
On retraction of the tongue, a solitary 5 cm × 4 cm swelling was noted in the floor of the mouth on the right side, crossing the midline till the lower left central incisor, completely obliterating the lingual vestibule and occupying the entire floor of the mouth on that side []. The mucosa overlying the swelling was adherent to the lingual gingiva in the region of the lower right premolars []. On palpation, the swelling was well defined, firm in consistency, regular surface, nontender, nonpulsatile, and not bimanually palpable. The mucosa overlying the swelling was freely movable except at the region of attachment to the gingiva. The submandibular ducts were patent and milking of the gland yielded normal saliva.
There was no evidence of salivary calculi or bony erosion in the mandibular occlusal radiograph. Contrast-enhanced computed tomography (CT) showed an enhancing mass lesion in the right sublingual region [Figures and ]. In view of the history, clinical features, and CT findings, we came to the diagnosis of a salivary gland tumor in the sublingual region. Fine-needle aspiration cytology was reported as sialadenitis of minor salivary gland. An incisional biopsy was thus carried out, which revealed the presence of mucous acini suggestive of minor salivary gland showing periductal inflammation and a very small portion of tumor cells arranged in cribriform pattern and cystic spaces filled with eosinophilic coagulum []. Hence, we came to a diagnosis of salivary gland tumor arising from the minor salivary gland with high suspicion of malignancy. Excisional