A 49-year-old Caucasian male with a history of recurrent pancreatitis complicated by a large peripancreatic fluid collection, presented with acute abdominal pain for one day. It was described as 8 out of 10, constant in the epigastrium and left upper quadrant, non-radiating, worse with movement, and partially relieved with analgesics. It was also associated with nausea and one episode of nonbloody, nonbilious emesis. He had 2–3 episodes of loose bowel movements; however, he denied melena or hematochezia. Social history was notable for one pack per day tobacco use, occasionally smoking of marijuana, and alcohol abuse. He had two previous episodes of acute pancreatitis in the past year. Physical examination showed unremarkable vitals, a soft non-distended abdomen with epigastric tenderness, and audible bowel sounds. Laboratory workup was only remarkable for a lipase of 425 U/L. Computed tomography (CT) scan of the abdomen () revealed peripancreatic fat stranding and multiple acute peripancreatic fluid collections, including a 5.6 × 5.1 cm collection between the spleen and the greater curvature of stomach, an 8.3 × 1.8 cm collection extending medially along pancreatic tail and wall of the stomach, and a 3.8 × 2.1 cm heterogeneous collection between the spleen and tail of the pancreas. Due to the nature and locations of the fluid collections found, an abdominal CT angiography () was done which showed a hyperdense component between the spleen and pancreatic tail with suspicion for either clot or pseudoaneurysm of the splenic artery. For further investigation of the hyperdense component, a catheter angiogram of the splenic artery was performed which demonstrated a rounded area of late arterial phase opacification, with staining consistent with a pseudoaneurysm of the splenic artery. A transcatheter embolization () was then successfully performed by placing the embolization coil both distally and proximally to the blood vessel supplying the pseudoaneurysm. Complete resolution of pseudoaneurysm was confirmed with a