Chief complaints: A 62-year-old German male presented with a relapsed tumor in the nasal septum, extending to dual-sided ethmoidal sinuses and abutting frontal skull base, as well as a suspicious lymph node metastasis in the left parotid gland, in an interval of 7 mo after the primary surgery to address a nasal SCC.
History of present illness: The tumor recurrence was confirmed by a sampling excision of nasal mucosa in August 2014, which showed moderately differentiated keratinizing SCC. According to the assessment of otorhinolaryngology, a resection was possible in principle but would have been accompanied by enormous physical defect and face distortion due to the requisite removal of bilateral medial canthi and glabella. The patient rejected the surgery and tried to gain information about RT. Consultation with the radiation oncology team of the university hospital close to his home led to recommendation of a combined CRT or proton beam therapy (PBT). The patient preferred the latter, after he became educated about the more vehement toxicities of conventional RT with photons, such as necessity of artificial nutrition owing to pharyngitis, malfunction of sense of smell and taste, deafness of left ear, and blindness in 2-5 years. Consequently, he contacted three particle therapy institutes in Germany but obtained refusal from two for the following reasons: The benefit of particle therapy for SNSCC was not completely clarified and could not be offered out of clinical trials. Besides, the sinonasal airspaces causing uncertainties in the treatment planning was unfavorable for the exact calculation of dose distribution in the target volume. Therefore, a conventional RT via modern technique [(e.g., intensity-modulated RT (IMRT)] with concomitant platinum-based chemotherapy was recommended. On the contrary, Rinecker Proton Therapy Center was the only one of the three consulted institutes which accepted the patient for PBT.
History of past illness: The nasal SCC had been initially noted in October 2013 by recurrent epist