A 66-year-old male with a past medical history of well-controlled hypertension, hypothyroidism, and coal worker’s pneumoconiosis was noted to have rising serum creatinine levels on outpatient evaluation and was referred for hospitalization for further evaluation of his progressive kidney disease.
He reported generalized weakness, fatigue, nausea, occasional vomiting, anorexia, and onset of a petechial skin rash that involved both lower extremities including the anterior tibial regions, lateral aspects of the upper thighs, and the inguinal areas. He had intermittent bilateral ankle edema and bilateral pedal neuropathy for about 3 weeks prior to the presentation. He reported having mild vague chronic lower abdominal discomfort for several months prior to the presentation. He had been taking an over-the-counter analgesic powder containing aspirin, acetaminophen, and caffeine daily until 5 months prior to presentation when he was hospitalized for pneumonia and was advised to discontinue taking the analgesic powder. After he discontinued taking the analgesic powder, he started taking 2 tablets of over-the-counter ibuprofen daily for his chronic headache and low back pain.
He experienced unilateral visual disturbances in his left eye 3 months prior to admission, and on ophthalmological evaluation, he was diagnosed with posterior scleritis and was prescribed oral corticosteroids for 1 month. Despite completing the corticosteroid course, his visual disturbances continued to progress with complete loss of vision in his left eye. He preferred no further workup or treatment for his left visual loss.
Review of systems was further remarkable for chronic cough with occasional production of small amounts of brown sputum, chronic exertional dyspnea, occasional episodes of epistaxis, and unintentional weight loss of about 35 to 40 pounds in the preceding several months. For these pulmonary symptoms, he received several antibiotic courses over a 6-month period.
His family history was notable for renal disease of uncertain etiology in his sister. He used smokeless tobacco in the form of tobacco dipping, but no alcohol or illicit drug use was reported. He had occupational exposure to fine particulate