Patient 3 was a 41-year-old man who presented with a sudden onset of severe abdominal pain. His past medical history was unremarkable with the exception of prolonged history of tobacco use. Subsequent imaging revealed a retroperitoneal hematoma in association with a 3-cm hepatic artery aneurysm, as well as pedunculated mass arising from the right lobe of the liver (). The aneurysm involved the main hepatic artery and extended from the gastroduodenal artery (GDA) origin to the bifurcation into the right and left hepatic arteries. The mass did not have radiological characteristics typical for liver cancer, and his tumor markers were within normal limits (CA-99 –11.4, alpha-fetoprotein–3.5, CEA–1.3).
The patient underwent exploratory laparotomy. His liver mass was resected first, and pathology was consistent with focal nodular hyperplasia. Then the attention was turned to the aneurysm. The aneurysm was completely excised, and pathology revealed fibrocalcific atherosclerosis. The plan was to perform interposition graft with a saphenous vein, however an autologous vein was found to be too small. A cryopreserved cadaveric femoral vein was used for reconstruction instead. The graft was anastomosed to common hepatic artery at the GDA takeoff proximally and to the right and left hepatic arteries distally. Postoperatively the patency of the graft was confirmed with an arteriogram at three months and then with ultrasounds spaced 3 months apart (). Twenty-two months after the initial operation the patient presented to an outside hospital with a massive gastrointestinal bleed. On imaging, the patient was found to have duodenohepatic arterioenteric fistula. The patient then underwent staged operations. First patient had a ViabahnⓇ duodenal stent placement to minimize the enteric leak. During surgery it was noted that the aneurysm was fused to the first part of the duodenum. The previous cryopreserved femoral vein was friable and formed a phlegmon. As definitive surgery, the patient’s left femoral vein was used as jump graft between aorta and