A 54-year-old man complained of aggravating abdominal pain 15 h after endoscopic resection of a colonic LST.
The patient was referred to our hospital for endoscopic resection of an LST measuring 30 mm that was diagnosed as an adenoma on pathology in the medial side of the colonic hepatic curvature. The patient was placed on a low-fiber diet on the day prior to endoscopic surgery. Adequate bowel preparation (BBPS: 3 points) was achieved using a spilt regimen of 4 L of polyethylene glycol solution and simethicone. During the procedure, our experienced team performed ESD for this lesion at first. When damage to the muscular layer caused by poor scope operability was observed, we changed into EPMR to quickly finish the operation. Prophylactic closure with clips was performed at the damage site. The tumor was removed without residue, and the wound was treated quite well without obvious perforation or hemorrhage. There was no abdominal pain after resection, and the patient was in a good condition. Routine antibiotics and intravenous nutrition were used in consideration of the large mucosal defect. Fifteen hours after endoscopic resection, the patient passed gas and then suddenly experienced severe abdominal pain that aggravated progressively over time without any alleviation.
The patient had a history of diabetes for 10 years without a regular oral hypoglycemic treatment. He had no history of other chronic diseases like cardiovascular disease and hypertension, and no history of trauma, surgery, or blood transfusion. He had no history of food and drug allergy.
The patient occasionally drank alcohol and denied a history of smoking. He had no family history of intestinal tumors.
Physical examination showed intolerable compression pain and rebound pain localized in the right abdomen, suggesting the presence of peritonitis.
Emergency blood analysis showed that neutrophil proportion increased slightly (79.9%) with normal white blood cell count, hemoglobin, and red blood cell count.
Emergency computed tomography (CT) revealed a small amount of pneumoperitoneum and substantial exudate (Figure