Our patient is a 70-year-old Caucasian male who presented to the Orthopedic Hand Clinic for the evaluation of his right dominant elbow. He was building a deer hunting blind when the platform fell and landed on the posterior aspect of his right arm. He noted immediate pain, swelling, and ecchymosis about the elbow at the time of the injury. He also complained of a painful popping sensation whenever he ranged the elbow and an inability to extend, with pain and weakness any time he attempted elbow extension. At the time of our first encounter with him, he was approximately 8 weeks out from the date of injury. His only significant medical history was osteoarthritis in his hands and a former smoker, quitting in 2010 after smoking for 30 years. He had no history of pain or trauma at the site before the injury and denied any history of exogenous corticosteroid use.
On physical examination, he was found to have tenderness to palpation just proximal to his olecranon (). He also had pain with range of motion of the elbow and he was unable to maintain active elbow extension against gravity or resistance. His passive range of motion was intact with no blocks to motion and functional arc of 0–140°with full pronation and supination. He was neurovascularly intact distally at the hand with no other pertinent findings on examination of the upper extremity.
Elbow radiographs reviewed at his initial visit revealed a small osseous fragment approximately 5 cm proximal to the tip of the olecranon (). No other fractures, dislocations, or other bony abnormalities were appreciated.
Our patient’s history, clinical examination, and radiographic findings were strongly indicative of a ruptured triceps tendon. He was to obtain advanced imaging studies and follow-up was scheduled to discuss magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) findings. The MRI confirmed our clinical suspicion by showing a complete tear of the triceps tendon with hematoma at its insertion site and retraction of the tendon approximately 3 cm proximally. Based on the