A 57-year-old woman with a history of hypertension, diabetes, hyperlipidemia, and cigarette smoking presented with an acute myocardial infarction. She underwent successful stent placement in the left anterior descending coronary artery using femoral artery access. During her initial hospitalization, she also reported lifestyle-limiting left leg claudication, and right arm heaviness and weakness exacerbated by movement. She reported no focal neurologic symptoms and had no dysphagia. Left arm blood pressure was 130/90 mm Hg and right arm blood pressure was 80/60 mm Hg. Left dorsalis pedis and posterior tibial pulses were not palpable. She returned 2 weeks later and underwent stent placement for a 95% stenosis of the left common iliac artery. Because right subclavian artery disease was also suspected based on arm symptoms and discordant arm blood pressures, arch aortography was performed at that time, demonstrating the stump of an occluded ARSA ( and ). Delayed imaging demonstrated collateral flow opacifying the distal vessel after a 60-mm occluded segment (). The right vertebral artery originated from the right common carotid artery. Duplex ultrasound showed monophasic flow in the right subclavian artery with spectral broadening and a peak systolic velocity of 55 cm/s. After a discussion of therapeutic options for ARSA, the patient chose conservative therapy rather than surgery or percutaneous treatment. She was treated with aspirin, clopidogrel, and atorvastatin.
During routine follow-up, the patient continued to report exertional right arm pain, heaviness, and weakness. Two and a half years after her initial presentation, she requested percutaneous revascularization. She was aware that there were no prior reports of percutaneous treatment of total occlusion of ARSA. She gave written informed consent for endovascular repair, and later gave written informed consent for publication of this case.
The procedure was performed using right femoral artery and ultrasound-guided right brachial artery access (). Ultrasound showed a 3.5-mm brachial artery diameter and 1.4-mm radial artery. Other than ultrasound, no additional pre-procedural imaging was performed.