A 60 year old male patient attended a private dental clinic with pain to the area of the upper left second molar. The patient’s medical history included hypertension, heavy smoking and alcohol consumption and he did not have syndromic features. His dental history included tooth mobility due to severe periodontitis. The panoramic radiograph incidentally revealed the existence of a fully formed impacted parapremolar located on the right side of the mandible between the first premolar and the canine (). It was decided not to perform a cone beam computer tomography (CBCT) examination to evaluate the presence of root resorption of the adjacent teeth since they had a very poor prognosis. The patient’s 34 year old son attended the same dental clinic. In his medical history he reported frequent respiratory infections, the removal of his thyroid gland a year ago and he did not present any syndromic features. Concerning his dental history, his bilateral lower third molars had been extracted. An incidental finding in the panoramic radiograph of the son () was a fully formed parapremolar in the mandible, located diagonally with its crown mesial to the second left premolar and its apex distal to the left second incisor. In order to better evaluate the exact location of the parapremolar and the potential risk of root resorption to the adjacent teeth, a cone beam computer tomography (CBCT) was performed (). As seen in the CBCT the parapremolar was located lingually. The supernumerary tooth as a whole was lingually located in the root of the lower left first premolar and was tangent to the latter. In particular, the distal portion of the supernumerary tooth’s crown was located proximal to the middle third of the root of lower left second premolar. The root of the supernumerary was located lingually and slightly below lower left canine. Moreover, it presented an abnormal morphology. The patient did not want to proceed with a surgical extraction of the supernumerary tooth and so observation