A 36-year-old Asian Indian male came to the triage room of our hospital with recent-onset abdominal pain. The pain was largely centered in the upper middle quadrant, which was piercing type, 7/10 on the severity scale, radiating to back, worsening with any move, and improving with respite. He disclaimed being suffering from any other illness except generalized anxiety disorder on the current illness history. His medical history was only substantial for hypovitaminosis D, for which he completed the vitamin D supplementation treatment course 1 month back. There was no positive surgical history. He was not consuming any drugs except amitriptyline for anxiety disorder for the past 8 years. The only medicine patient consumed preceding pain onset was ofloxacin-ornidazole FDC (200 mg ofloxacin and 500 mg ornidazole containing) tablet. The abdominal pain started 2 h after oral intake of ofloxacin-ornidazole FDC tablet obtained without prescription, reaching sufficient severity by 12 h requiring medical consultation in an emergency room. On further questioning, the patient recalled that 3 years ago he had similar abdominal pain that developed after taking ofloxacin-ornidazole FDC (with the different brand name) and had to see a doctor in an emergency. He was diagnosed as acute pancreatitis []. The pain of the past episode responded within a few minutes to hours to painkiller injection with a reduction in the food intake on the clinician's advice. The patient is nonalcoholic; has never smoked or taken any recreational drugs. On evaluation, his vitals were stable. Tenderness was elicited in epigastrium on palpation without any guarding or the rigidity. Biochemical examination showed a raised concentration of lipase 635 units/L and amylase 377 units/L in the serum. CT examination of the abdomen was noteworthy for grade C acute pancreatitis (peripancreatic and perirenal fat stranding) with no collection formation []. Ultrasound examination of the abdomen ruled out the possibility of gallstone []. The patient