A 37-year-old Caucasian man of Cuban descent with a medical history significant only for well-controlled hypertension and absent of any previous tobacco use sought medical care for oropharyngeal bleeding, and was diagnosed with p16-positive HNSCC in October 2016. He initially presented with stage II (cT2N0M0) disease which was treated with radiation therapy consisting of 69.96 Grey in 33 fractions with no concurrent chemotherapy, completed by January 2017. Up until this point in time, the patient’s diagnosis and treatment occurred at outside institutions and not at our own. Follow-up positive emission tomography scan in April 2017 at our institution showed complete response with no evidence of residual or recurrent disease. In October 2018, he developed chest wall pain, and subsequent CT at an outside institution showed a 4.2 cm left lower lobe pulmonary mass suspicious for malignancy. At this juncture, he was referred to our centre for pulmonary evaluation. Bronchoscopy revealed that the left lower lobe basilar segment was completely occluded by tumour, and under endobronchial ultrasound enlarged subcarinal and left hilar lymph nodes were noted. Biopsies were taken from the left lower lobe and the enlarged subcarinal lymph node. Pathology for both biopsies returned positive for squamous cell carcinoma positive for p16 by immunohistochemistry, with programmed cell death 1 (PD-L1) Tumor Proportion Score (TPS) of 70%.
Due to a personal preference to avoid chemotherapy, he received 30 Grey of radiation to the dominant left lower lobe lesion in December 2018. Prior to the completion of radiation therapy, however, we performed apositron emission tomography (PET) scan which revealed a more extensive and multifocal metastatic burden than previously realised, with disease present in both lungs, mediastinum and the thoracic spine. He did not have any pain or neurological deficits from his thoracic spine lesion. Given his PD-L1 TPS of 70% and desire for the most aggressive therapy available without the use of any chemotherapeutic agents,