A 30-year-old Bangladeshi male patient was discovered to have experienced a sudden episode of loss of consciousness while talking with his friends. Emergency medical services arrived 20 min later and found the patient to be in cardiac arrest with ongoing bystander cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR). His initial cardiac rhythm was ventricular fibrillation (VF) as the initial rhythm following which CPR was started and delivery of direct current (DC) shock as per the advanced life support guidelines. Following the first DC shock, the cardiac rhythm changed to pulseless electrical activity arrest for which CPR was continued for 22 min until the return of spontaneous circulation. He was intubated during resuscitation and then transferred to the heart hospital emergency department. On physical examination, the patient had a blood pressure of 107/73 mmHg, heart rate of 120 bpm, regular rhythm, and was receiving mechanical ventilatory support. Notably, he had equal bilaterally reactive pupils with a normal respiratory and abdominal examination. Initial laboratory investigations were significant for white blood cells 18/uL, hemoglobin 16.6 g/dL, platelet count 282/uL, alanine transaminase 129 U/L, aspartate aminotransferase 102 U/L, troponin T 700 > 1100 > 500 ng/L, and a lactic acid of 3.9 mmol/L, all of which returned back to the normal limits within 2 days of receiving the supportive care. His renal function tests and electrolytes were within normal limits. A chest X-ray, computed tomography (CT) scan of his brain and CT pulmonary angiography were all unremarkable. His 12-lead ECG was significant for Brugada pattern type 1, with typical coved ST elevation of ≥2 mm in at least one right precordial lead []. The patient was admitted to the cardiology intensive care unit, and a hypothermia protocol was initiated following which the patient was extubated after 5 days without any permanent neurological deficit. Upon reviewing the patient’s medical records, it was noted that he had initially presented to the Hamad General