A 23-year-old female patient was referred to the department for the management of a mandibular partial edentulous area having high muscle attachment. The patient was being considered for an implant placement for missing mandibular right first permanent molar (Teeth no. 46). The high muscle attachment was considered to be an impediment for proper implant placement and in maintaining proper oral hygiene. The patient's main chief complaint was difficulty in chewing food because of the missing tooth and food lodgment due to high muscle attachment in the mandibular region (46).
On examination, patient medical history was unremarkable, with no report of incidents of trauma and infections. On examination, the patient was a well-built, well-nourished, well-oriented, and mentally sound adult. No medical history and no extraoral abnormalities were detected. The patient did not indulge in tobacco or alcohol chewing habit.
Intraoral examination showed good oral and periodontal hygiene. Tooth no 46 was missing, and the extraction was done because of the decayed teeth. The height and width of the edentulous ridge were maintained. On retracting the cheek, a frenum-like band of soft tissue attached at the crest of the edentulous ridge was observed. On closure examination, anatomic reference points and the nature of the attached tissue revealed that it was the buccinator muscle whose attachment was abnormal. The origin of the attachment extended to the crest of the alveolar ridge. The vestibular depth was almost nonexistent in that area [].
The attachment of the muscle leads to the difficulty in movements of the toothbrush, leading to suboptimal oral hygiene. The attachment would have definitely created a space problem for the implant placement and, because of the food impaction in that area, may further worsen the situation. A decision to reposition the attachment apically was undertaken. Muscle repositioning treatment was discussed with the patient. The patient accepted the apical repositioning with an acrylic stent treatment option and gave written consent.
Routine blood investigations were carried out