A 24-year-old pregnant woman (gravida 3, para 0) with a 6-year history of septate uterus presented to the emergency room with premature rupture of the membranes and the threat of premature labor for 9 hours. In her personal medical history, she had used misoprostol for medical abortion 6 and 3 years previously. There was no history of smoking, alcoholic beverage consumption, or drug abuse during the pregnancy, and no hereditary anomalies were identified in her family.
A male neonate who weighed 2400 g was born at 34 weeks and 4 days of gestation by cesarean section. His Apgar scores were 10 at 1 minute and 10 at 5 minutes. At birth, we noticed an amniotic band that consisted of a layer of annular amniotic tissue approximately 1 cm wide, which was tightened around the upper third of the right upper limb. The distal limb displayed cyanoderma, edema of the extremity, and focal peeling, with no autonomous activities or reactions of tenderness (). An X-ray showed a negative result for the humerus, but clear swelling of the soft tissues (). During the operation, the space between the amniotic band and upper limb skin was carefully separated and the band was cut off directly. The neonate was then transferred to the neonatal intensive care unit. Four hours later, swelling of the right limb was further aggravated, the radial artery could not be reached, and the local skin color did not improve. Hypoperfusion of the limb was continued and the limb remained insensate without motor compromise (). We considered the possibility that further necrosis of the limb and local toxin absorption could lead to death of the neonate. We decided to amputate the upper third of the right upper extremity. The patient was relatively stable during anesthesia and successfully underwent surgery (). No severe complications occurred after the operation. The incision was almost healed without infection, dehiscence, or other complications, as observed by postoperative X-ray images (). The neonate recovered rapidly and was discharged 9 days after surgery. The stitches