A 59-year-old female smoker with a background history of hypertension, depressive disorder and body mass index of 17 presented to the emergency department with acute onset central abdominal pain and findings consistent with a perforated peptic ulcer demonstrated on subsequent computed tomography. She underwent successful laparoscopic omental patch repair and peritoneal lavage for a perforated ulcer located anteriorly on the first part of the duodenum with resultant four quadrant peritonitis. The procedure was completed using four trocars, with a 10-mm trocar placed at the umbilicus and 5-mm trocars in the right iliac fossa, right upper quadrant and left flank. A 21-Fr Robinson drain was inserted through each of the 5-mm trocar sites with the drain in the right iliac fossa lying in the pelvis and the remaining two drains anterior and posterior to the patch repair. The patient’s postoperative course was complicated by paralytic ileus and hospital-acquired pneumonia.
The drains placed in the right iliac fossa and left flank were removed on the 10th postoperative day without immediate complication. On the 12th day postoperatively, the patient noted a swelling at the right iliac fossa trocar site. On removal of the wound dressing, the appendix and mesoappendix were noted to have herniated through the trocar site (). While the appendix could not be reduced, there were no signs of strangulation or apparent perforation.
The patient was transferred to theatre and underwent emergent open appendicectomy through extension of the trocar-site incision. The entire length of the appendix was noted to have herniated through the trocar site with the appendiceal base and caecum lying adjacent to the abdominal wall defect. There was no apparent injury to the appendix or visualized caecum. Ligation of the appendix was completed with 2-0 polyglactin with subsequent appendicectomy and inversion of the appendix stump. Continuous closure of fascial layers and skin closure with interrupted subcuticular sutures were completed.
The patient’