The patient suffered from recurrent difficulty in voiding and urine retention even underwent surgical intervention for about half-a-year.
A 65-year-old Asian man presented with difficulty voiding for about 2 years that deteriorated gradually within 6 mo even if received treatment with selective alpha-blocker agent. He visited a local hospital for first aid in 2016. In addition, dry ejaculation has also disturbed for more than one year before medical intervention. The patient did not complain about any episode of hematuria, fever, or loss of weight. TRUS showed an estimated volume of 230 cm3, irregular shape with heterogeneous echotexture, and multiple cysts. A systemic core needle biopsy revealed nodular hyperplasia with inflammation and some atypical glands but no evidence of malignancy. Because of the former failed medical treatments and the recurrent weak urinary stream and urine retention, two transurethral resections of the prostate (TURP) were undertaken during a short 4-month interval (April and July 2016). Both pathology reports revealed nodular hyperplasia and chronic prostatitis with a few atypical glands weighing 5.3 g and 5.2 g, respectively. No malignancy was identified by immunohistochemistry (IHC) staining.
However, the patient continued to have gradually deteriorating obstructive voiding symptoms and acute urine retention for 6 months, even with 5-alpha reductase and alpha-blocker treatment. Therefore, he came to our tertiary hospital and underwent a laser prostatectomy (green-light XPS), with the consideration of TRUS still showing a huge residual prostate gland with an estimated volume of 131.3 cm3 and uroflowmetry disclosing a low peak flow and an average flow rate with a large postvoid residual urine volume. The pathology report on the resected tissues revealed multilocular cystadenoma of the prostate. Nonetheless, the patient experienced progressive difficulty in voiding 1 year after the laser prostatectomy, although the PSA levels were within the range of 4-6 ng/mL.
He had been healthy before the low urinary tract symptoms developed.
He