A 58-year-old male was referred to the ENT outpatient department on an urgent cancer/2 week wait pathway with a history of intermittent exertional stridor, dysphonia and dysphagia, on the background of a normal upper gastrointestinal endoscopy. Prior to his outpatient review, there had been multiple attendances to the emergency department with similar symptoms, but no formal endoscopic evaluation of his upper aerodigestive tract had been undertaken.
His clinical history was unremarkable, with the exception of a long smoking history. His past medical history comprised of a previous partial thyroidectomy for a multinodular goitre in 2006, followed by a revision thyroid surgery including a right hemithyroidectomy in 2017 for further compressive symptoms. There were no reported allergies. He was prescribed thyroxine and calcium supplements due to his previous thyroid surgery. On further questioning, it became apparent the patient had not been compliant with his calcium medication.
Head and neck examination demonstrated scars from the previous thyroid surgery, and nasendoscopy yielded some tongue base fullness, with symmetrical cord mobility and no obvious evidence of malignancy. An urgent computed tomography scan of the neck and thorax was requested and demonstrated a small mucous retention cyst within the tongue base, residual thyroid tissue within both thyroid beds, but no convincing evidence of a malignant process of the upper aerodigestive tract. Due to the ongoing nature of his symptoms, he was listed for a panendoscopy under a general anaesthetic.
Routine haematological and biochemical tests were undertaken at a pre-operative assessment clinic, which revealed an adjusted calcium level of 1.42 mmol/l, and undetectable parathyroid hormone (PTH) level. The patient was contacted with the results and admitted overnight for assessment, monitoring and treatment. Paraesthesia of both upper limbs was reported, with a prolonged QT interval seen on his electrocardiogram, and thus cardiac monitoring was commenced. He was treated with intravenous calcium over 48 h and converted to oral Sandocal 1000 three times per day and Alfacalcidol