A 79-year-old female non-smoker presented with painless swelling below the left side of the mandible angle, which was first noticed 4 years previously (). She had no history of cardiovascular disease, diabetes mellitus and trauma to the head and neck. The palpable mass was pulsatile and had a diameter of 5 cm. Intraoral examination was unremarkable. A computed tomography (CT) () and a magnetic resonance imaging scan demonstrated the presence of a 5-cm left submandibular gland tumor, whereas contrast-enhanced CT () and ultrasonography revealed a 3.8 × 3.3 cm aneurysm of the facial artery with a cystic structure. We judged a submandibular tumor with pseudoaneurysm or a true aneurysm and suggested treatment options for the mass. The patient selected surgical excision under general anesthesia in response to the pathological diagnosis and to ensure the recovery of her esthetic appearance. We, therefore, consulted endovascular surgeons for angiography and internal trapping before the surgical excision, considering that there was a risk of bleeding during the operation.
A parent vessel occlusion was performed with coils by endovascular surgeons from the distal to the proximal side of the aneurysm under local anesthesia (). After the endovascular trapping with coils, the facial mass was non-pulsatile.
A total of 8 days after the internal trapping, the patient underwent an operation for excision of the aneurysm under general anesthesia. Skin incision was made using the submandibular approach at 4-cm below the inferior border of the mandible, thus exposing the facial artery and the aneurysm. The mass adhered to a left submandibular gland and the gland did not have any structural change. We, therefore, isolated and saved the gland from the mass. Subsequently, we ligated the facial artery and excised the mass, and then closed the skin using a 5-0 nylon suture (, ). The histopathological examination of the excised mass confirmed a true aneurysm of the facial artery with organized thrombus. There was no bleeding from the wound during or after surgery. The postoperative course was uneventful; the patient had no