A 63-year-old female with a history of long-term tobacco use, COPD, and stable disease of stage 4 lung adenocarcinoma for three years after short-term nivolumab treatment, developed a pulmonary nodule in the right upper lobe during the interval of her three-year surveillance for primary lung adenocarcinoma.
The patient was originally diagnosed with a stage IIIb adenocarcinoma nearly four years previously after initial presentation with left-sided neck lymphadenopathy. She had a left upper lobe mass with diffuse lymphadenopathies in the hilum and mediastinum visible on CT scan. She was treated with paclitaxel and carboplatin, but the disease progressed with brain metastasis and bulky lymphadenopathies over eight months. Her lung adenocarcinoma was restaged to stage IV. She received stereotactic radiation for brain metastasis and received nivolumab every three weeks, in total eight doses, until she refused further treatment. She underwent imaging surveillance every six months. Her scan revealed a partial response to immunotherapy with resolution of lymphadenopathy. Her primary lung cancer remained stable without any new nodules, progression, or metastasis for three years until a new nodule was found. The patient also remained asymptomatic other than her chronic shortness of breath and cough due to her underlying COPD.
At her three-year surveillance, the newly developed right upper lobe nodule measured 1.5 cm × 0.8 cm (shown in Fig ). The patient missed her follow-up appointment, so PET- CT scan was delayed for two months. Following PET-CT scan, there were no other signs of increased metabolic activity other than the new nodule (as shown in Fig ). At around the same time, the patient was seen at the emergency department due to exacerbation of her COPD symptoms. A CT pulmonary angiogram was carried out as part of her COPD exacerbation work-up at the emergency department visit. The study revealed an increase in the size of the mass to 2.8 cm × 2.1 cm, which was eight times larger in volume compared to that initially detected (shown