A 51-year-old non-smoking woman was admitted to L. G. Sokolov Memorial Hospital 122 due to an area of consolidation in the middle lobe that was found on a chest computed tomography (CT) scan. Two years ago, chest CT was performed due to increasing dyspnea, and revealed a middle lobe neoplasm (). The lesion was solid, centrally located, measuring 16×15 mm, with smooth margins, and caused partial atelectasis of the middle lobe with no enlarged lymph nodes. During video-assisted thoracoscopic surgery (VATS) exploration performed at another institution, the neoplasm in the middle lobe was visualized, as well as multiple small yellowish foci on the parietal pleura, upon which basis pleural dissemination was suspected. Thus, wedge resection of the middle lobe with the entire lesion and biopsy of the parietal pleura were performed. According to the morphologic examination, an atypical carcinoid was verified, the resection margins were clear, and pleural carcinomatosis was confirmed. The patient was treated with octreotide (20 mg once in 28 days) since she had mild symptoms of carcinoid syndrome (the recurrent feeling of blood rushing to the face). Twelve months after surgery, local recurrence was suspected based on follow-up CT (). Significant consolidation was seen in the suture line area, and several small lesions were noted on the parietal pleura. No other signs of distant metastasis or lymph node involvement were found on chest and abdominal CT.
At the time of admission to our hospital, the patient had mild dyspnea. Her Charlson comorbidity index was 3. The level of chromogranin A was elevated. The patient was scheduled for VATS re-exploration of the pleural space to prove the presence of recurrence and to evaluate the volume of dissemination and the extent of the previous operation. During surgery, local recurrence in the remaining middle lobe and multiple miliary yellowish foci from 2 to 5 mm in diameter on the parietal pleura were visualized, but the visceral pleura was