A 65-year-old male patient was admitted to our hospital with chest pain in the coronary intensive care unit. Upon the detection of instable angina pectoris, 60 mg low-molecular-weight heparin (LMWH) and 300 mg clopidogrel were initiated. The patient was on antihypertensive treatment for 15 years due to essential hypertension and he also used acetylsalicylic acid 100 mg/day. The patient did not have any a recent head or spinal trauma and surgical treatment, and he did not smoke.
He experienced sudden-onset severe neck pain and occipital headache on the third day of ACS treatment and felt muscle weakness and numbness in bilateral upper and lower extremities about 24 h after the onset of pain. On his physical examination, the patient was alert, orientated, and afebrile with a blood pressure of 140/90 mmHg. The muscle strength of upper extremities was 2/5 proximally and 1/5 distally, while that of the lower extremities was 0/5 proximally and distally. There was anesthesia below the C4 dermatome. Also, no deep tendon reflex could be elicited. The rectal examination revealed reduced anal sphincter tone and anesthesia in the perineal region. Routine laboratory and coagulation parameters (prothrombin time and activated partial thromboplastin time, and the international normalized ratio) were within normal limits. Neurology and neurosurgery consultations were requested, and urgent spinal magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) was performed. The MRI showed a space occupying formation extending from the level of C4 to T1 in the cervical spine which did not cause abnormal signal changes in the spinal cord and which was isointense in the T1-weighted images and heterogeneous signal intensity in the T2-weighted images. Spinal cord injury was assessed as Grade A complete injury according to the American Spinal Injury Association (ASIA) Impairment Scale. The patient underwent emergency decompressive laminectomy and hematoma evacuation with the diagnosis of SSEH approximately 40 h after the onset of symptoms. On the postoperative Day 1,