A 75-year-old female had the habit of taking vinegar daily for 50 years. She was transported to our emergency room complaining of vomiting and loss of consciousness. Her medical history included hypertension, and she took amlodipine 10 mg daily. Her family history was negative. Socially, she denied any history of smoking, drug or alcohol use.
On physical examination, she was unconscious, hypotensive and in respiratory failure. Her blood pressure was 86/58 mmHg. An electrocardiogram showed sinus tachycardia. Oxygen saturation was 90% (10 L of oxygen administration). No subcutaneous emphysema was observed in the chest. There were no signs of peritoneal irritation. Laboratory data showed a white blood count of 3500. The C-reactive protein level was 8.7 mg/dL, and renal dysfunction was present. Electrolytes, liver function and urinalysis were all within normal ranges.
Computed tomography of the thoracic and abdomen with contrast showed poor contrast in the middle intrathoracic esophagus, mediastinal emphysema, right pneumothorax and pleural effusion ().
She was diagnosed with septic shock due to esophageal rupture; therefore, we performed emergency surgery. We opened the chest through a posterolateral incision of the sixth intercostal space in the left-sided supine position. The right chest cavity was highly contaminated with fluid containing food residue. We identified a 25 mm perforation site in the middle intrathoracic esophagus. The esophageal mucosa turned black (). We determined that suture closure was not possible and resected the thoracic esophagus by 10 cm. She needed to have an esophageal fistula and an enteric fistula, but because her shock vitals were prolonged intraoperatively, she needed immediate systemic management in the intensive care unit, and the surgery was completed after esophagectomy and intrathoracic lavage drainage as a damage control strategy.
In the excised specimen, the esophageal mucosa was blackened throughout and there were no obvious malignant findings ().
Histopathological examination revealed that the esophageal mucosa was ulcerated and necrotic and perforated in one place. Lymphocytic infiltration was observed in the mucosal surface