A 33-year-old female patient who was still breastfeeding 10 months after her first natural delivery visited our outpatient clinic because of a left intertrochanteric fracture caused by falling from standing height. Before her pregnancy, the patient had no hypertension, diabetes mellitus, or other chronic diseases. She had no history of long-term drug use, smoking, or alcohol intake. She had not had any operations, did not suffer from hip or femur trauma, and had no family history of osteoporosis or hip fracture. During her pregnancy, the patient had no preeclampsia, eclampsia, gestational hyperthyroidism, or other metabolic diseases. She had no history of chronic diarrhea and never used glucocorticoids, heparin, or other drugs. Calcium 600 mg and vitamin D3 700 IU were supplemented every day during pregnancy, but she discontinued taking calcium and vitamin D after delivery. The patient had never complained about lower back or transient hip pain or a decrease in self-awareness of height during pregnancy and lactation. The patient experienced pain in the left hip after a fall, and could not stand on her left leg. At a physical examination, shortening deformity at the left leg was found, the range of motion in the left hip was restricted because of pain, and there was localized tenderness with palpation on the left hip. Percussion pain in the left lower limb was positive, but there was no tenderness in the spinal process in the thoracolumbar region and paravertebral muscles. Hip radiography () showed a left intertrochanteric fracture. Although the patient never complained about low back pain, magnetic resonance imaging of the thoracic and lumbar spine identified a new compression fracture in the L1 vertebra with marrow edema (). Laboratory test results are shown in . Serum calcium and parathyroid hormone concentrations were in the normal range, and 25-hydroxyvitamin D3 and albumin concentrations were low. BMD was measured with DXA, which showed a reduction in density in the hip and lumbar vertebrae ().
The patient was recommended to discontinue breastfeeding. Enhanced nutritional support, additional calcium (600