A 48-year-old female patient presented to us with a 6-year-old history of pain in the right little fingertip. She took treatment at multiple places and only got transient relief before she was referred from the primary care center for further evaluation. The onset was insidious and there was no history of injury, smoking, diabetes, peripheral vascular, and cardiovascular disorder. There was no visible swelling but localized pain and tenderness over the volar aspect of distal phalanx of the little finger. The neurovascular status was intact in the affected upper extremity. There was also the history of pain increasing on cold temperature, when a fan or air conditioner is on and during winters, On palpation, pinpoint tenderness was noted when the volar pulp was given pressure with a blunt pin. The nails were normal without any pain or discoloration. The patient had normal radiographs and patient was referred for magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the finger. The MRI revealed a 14 × 3.5 mm altered signal intensity lesion in the soft tissue of the distal phalanx on the volar aspect best seen on sagittal T1-weighted images as T1 hyperintense lesion with heterogeneous hypointensity on fat suppression []. The lesion was closely abutting the distal phalanx cortex but without any cortical breach noted. The MRI was suggestive of glomus tumor and the excision biopsy was planned. The volar midline incision centered over the lesion was made under aseptic preparation and finger tourniquet, A glistening bluish-colored soft tissue lesion was found and that was removed en bloc with careful dissection []. Hemostasis was achieved and the wound closed after ensuring the excision of the lesion in its entirety so that to decrease chances of recurrence. The specimen was sent for biopsy and diagnosis of glomus tumor was concluded []. The postoperative period and the follow-up was uneventful and there was a marked improvement in clinical parameters with a marked reduction in the presurgery level