A 71-year-old man was admitted to our hospital with chief complaints of abdominal pain and vomiting.
A 71-year-old man was on treatment for chronic hepatitis B for 22 years when he was diagnosed with HCC. He was noted to have tumor nodules of size 20 mm in diameter, located in segment 8, on a follow-up abdominal computed tomography (CT) (Figure ) and had undergone partial liver resection 7 years previously. Based on the 8th Union for International Cancer Control classification of HCC, the tumor was classified as pT1N0M0 stage 1. Seven months after the first surgery, abdominal CT revealed recurrent HCC with nodules 10 mm in diameter, in segment 6 of the liver (Figure ). When laparotomy was performed, a peritoneal mass was found that was not apparent preoperatively; therefore, partial liver resection and peritoneal tumor resection were performed (Figure and ). The peritoneal tumor with peritoneal metastasis of HCC was diagnosed based on histopathological findings. Fourteen months after the first surgery, abdominal CT revealed a tumor nodule 32 mm in diameter in the pelvis, which was diagnosed as a peritoneal recurrence of HCC (Figure ). We determined that the recurrent tumor was solitary and decided to perform tumor resection. However, many small peritoneal nodules were found at the time of laparotomy, and radical resection was impossible (Figure ). Subsequently, the patient was followed up by the department of gastroenterology of our hospital, and 16 mo after the initial resection of HCC, administration of sorafenib of 400 mg/d was started. Since he developed a grade 2 hand-foot syndrome, the dosage was reduced to 200 mg/d. The administration was continued for 54 mo without any other major adverse events, and the disease was well controlled. Seventy months after the first surgery, he was admitted to our hospital with chief complaints of abdominal pain and vomiting.
The patient’s history was significant for extensive gastrectomy for duodenal ulcer at the age of 22 years. In addition, he had