We present a 45 year-old lady who had initially been seen by the respiratory physicians following an admission with acute dyspnoea following influenza infection 1-year prior to her surgery. She had undergone CT scan for abnormal chest radiograph. She had previously worked as a cleaner and was an ex-smoker of 1.5 pack years with no previous asbestos exposure or underlying genetic disease such as tuberous sclerosis or alpha-1 antitrypsin deficiency. She had been followed up in the nodule clinic (a follow-up clinic run by respiratory physicians to monitor solitary pulmonary nodules) with a provisional diagnosis of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. She had progressive dyspnoea and occasional lower respiratory tract infections treated with courses of antibiotics. Her co-morbidities included previous alcohol dependence and depression. Pre-operative pulmonary function tests demonstrated an FEV1 of 1.53 (53% of predicted), FVC of 2.52 (79% of predicted), diffusing capacity of lungs for carbon monoxide (DLCO) of 5.25 (62% of predicted) and 6 minute walking distance of 414 m. Initial CT imaging findings demonstrated severe, heterogenous right-sided bullous emphysematous changes with a basal predominance and multiple large bullae in the lower lobe () and a benign inflammatory nodule, which was 7 mm in size in the right upper zone presumably right upper lobe. There was associated hyperinflation causing mediastinal shift to the left with complete right middle lobe collapse and marked compression of the right upper and middle lobes. Due to her increasing symptoms and progressive solitary nodule () in the right upper zone she was referred for a surgical opinion. Pre-operative echocardiography did not demonstrate any right ventricular dilatation or impairment and no pulmonary hypertension. She was counselled regarding the progressive symptoms, lung function and risk of pneumothoraces and scheduled for right thoracotomy and lower lobectomy. Operative findings were that of large bullous disease affecting the right lower lobe () with subtotal destruction of the lung parenchyma of the lower lobe. The nodule was present in