A 36-year-old Caucasian male with no significant previous medical problems presented to the orthopedic oncology clinic with complaints of pain in the right leg with an associated foot drop. He was otherwise healthy and denied any history of trauma or injury, did not smoke, and had no prior surgery or significant family history. He developed pain along the sciatic distribution 3 years before evaluation with progressive numbness, tingling, and weakness. His prior work-up included radiographs and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of his L-spine which demonstrated Grade I anterolisthesis of L5 on S1 with associated degenerative disc disease (). Mild inferior foraminal narrowing was also noted. The patient had been treated by their primary care physician who referred them to pain management when physical therapy and anti-inflammatory medications did not improve his symptoms. His treatment course included epidural steroid injections and treatment with gabapentin and oxycodone. Two years before evaluation, he developed a palpable mass in his right upper calf that slowly increased in size. Nine months prior to evaluation, the patient had increasing pain and progressive weakness and numbness.
On evaluation, the patient’s right calf measured 42 cm at the level of the tibial tubercle compared to 38 cm on the left. A firm, non-mobile mass was palpated with a positive Tinel’s in the peroneal nerve distribution. The patient had numbness in the peroneal distribution with normal posterior tibial sensation. His ankle and toe dorsiflexion was graded as 2 out of 5. He ambulated without an assistive device but noted he would trip over his foot occasionally. A plain film demonstrated a tumor arising from the proximal fibula with sparse calcifications in the soft tissues (). An MRI of the leg was then performed demonstrating tumor arising from the proximal fibula that measured 9.6 cm × 6.7 cm × 6.6 cm in size (). Staging studies, including a whole body bone scan and computed tomography (CT)