A 67-year-old Chinese man was referred to our hospital with diarrhea for more than 5 mo and for management of early colon cancer discovered by colonoscopy in another hospital.
The patient visited a hospital for the first time due to diarrhea of yellow watery stool 8-9 times per day on December 20, 2018. Colonoscopy suggested colon polyps with a pathology of tubular adenoma. No significant improvement was observed in the symptoms after antidiarrheal treatment. The patient underwent colonoscopy in another hospital again, which revealed multiple polyps in the liver curvature of the colon, cecum, and descending colon on April 23, 2019. The biopsy pathology of the polyp (liver curvature) in our hospital’s consultation indicated villous adenoma, and some glands showed moderate-to-severe dysplasia with focal early carcinogenesis, roughly showing in situ adenocarcinoma changes. Therefore, the patient was admitted to our hospital for evaluation and treatment of early colon cancer.
The patient underwent right lung nodule resection 1 year prior and lumbar disc herniation surgery 28 years ago. He had no history of other diseases or allergic drugs. He had a smoking history of 30 years and had quit smoking for 8 years. His younger brother died of lung cancer. The patient had no familial history of genetic diseases.
The patient’s personal and family history was unremarkable.
On physical examination upon admission, the patient’s height and weight were 160 cm and 55 kg, respectively, and he had a blood pressure of 96/58 mmHg and pulse rate of 80 beats/min. There were no other pathognomonic signs during physical examination, except for enhanced bowel sounds at 8 beats/min.
After admission, the patient underwent thorough evaluations including routine blood tests, routine urine tests, routine fecal tests, occult blood tests, blood biochemistry, infection indices, and serum tumor markers. He had hypoproteinemia and hypokalemia with serum albumin and potassium levels of 29.61 g/L and 3.37 mmol/L, respectively.