A 53-year-old homeless man with a history of heroin and amphetamine abuse presented to a rural emergency department with rapidly progressing lower extremity weakness over the past few days. His vital signs were normal and multiple skin-popping injection track marks were observed on the skin. No definite weakness was documented. A spinal epidural abscess was considered due to his history of parenteral drug abuse and lower extremity weakness. However, his head and thoracolumbar spine CTs were negative for any structural lesion and he was discharged from the ED after an epidural abscess was ruled out.
The patient returned to the ED the following day because of worsening weakness, shortness of breath and new onset double vision. The patient reports injecting heroin into the right buttock and was subsequently unable to rise from his sleeping bag, support his own weight, or walk. The patient was afebrile. Furthermore, he denies smoking cigarettes, marijuana, alcohol, diabetes, hypertension, peptic ulcers or asthma.
Physical examination again revealed normal vital signs. However, the patient had ptosis of the left eye, double vision on left lateral gaze, and difficulty elevating his eyebrows. A right thigh abscess and left hip abscess were defined. Bilateral thigh and gluteal skin scarring with induration were also documented. No edema was present. Splinter hemorrhages were documented under the patient's fingernails. The patient was unable to raise his head from a flexed position and compensated by pushing his chin up superiorly with his hands. Quantification of lower extremity motor strength was difficult and most probably grade 2–3/5.
The patient was then transferred to a larger hospital facility and on arrival, the patient was noted to be obtunded and unable to follow commands. There was a new progression of ocular findings including dilated and poorly reactive pupils. A non-contrast CT of the head was normal, and an MRI of the head was unremarkable except for mastoiditis. Urine toxicology was positive for opioids and amphetamine