A 54 year old woman presented to our Outpatient Department after breast augmentation she claimed to have had 25 years before, via bilateral liquid silicone injections. The patient had the procedure overseas by a medical professional (not specialized in plastic surgery) as an outpatient, having the injections with local anesthesia and sedation and leaving the facility on the same day. A short course of oral antibiotics was given. She could not provide any written documentation regarding the type and exact amount of silicone used. She claims her early postoperative course ran smoothly, with mild bruising, but through the next months she felt her breasts got subsequently larger in size, stabilizing at around three months postoperatively.
She complained that she was not satisfied with her current breast size anymore, but also that she often experienced diffuse breast pain and firmness. She denied having any other symptoms regarding her breasts.
On clinical examination she had significantly large ptotic breasts (sternal notch to NAC: 30 cm right, 31 cm left) with palpable painless firm masses bilaterally, compatible according to her history with giant siliconomas (). She had no palpable axillary lymph nodes. Her medical history was significant for psoriasis, but she mentioned that she hadn’t been taking any medications for it. She was also an active smoker with a 30-year pack smoking history. She had one full term pregnancy and she did not breastfeed at the time. She denied any knowledge of hereditary risk for breast cancer.
She provided documentation of recent mammography and ultrasound examinations. The mammogram showed diffuse infiltration of both breasts with the injected material, which obscured any normal breast parenchyma (). The ultrasound described a ‘snowstorm’ pattern of liquid material, with multiple hyperechogenic elements and sparse calcifications, which almost completely occupied the parenchyma. Above this layer, multiple complex cysts were observed, representing multiple globules of silicone ().
A preoperative MRI scan was