In September 2017, a 65-year-old female with multiple comorbidities was diagnosed with metastatic pancreatic NET and CHD. Her past medical history was significant for hypertension, dyslipidemia, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, hypothyroidism, migraines, gastroesophageal reflux disease, essential tremor, depression, anxiety, osteoporosis, and chronic back pain due to lumbar stenosis. She was an active smoker with a 50-pack-year smoking history. She previously suffered from alcohol dependence but had not consumed a drink in several years. She also had a history of pain medication over-use in the setting of her chronic back pain. She is a retired secretary with 3 healthy adult children and no significant cardiac or oncologic family history. The patient's home medications at the time of starting octreotide can be found in Table . Her clinical course is described below.
From 2008 to 2017, the patient had several admissions to hospital for nausea, emesis, diarrhea, and abdominal pain and cramping. No definitive cause was determined for most of these episodes. She was diagnosed with acute pancreatitis likely due to alcohol ingestion in 2010 and a colonic biopsy demonstrated collagenous colitis following a colonoscopy in 2012. The patient was also empirically diagnosed with Addison's disease due to persistent severe hypokalemia in the setting of her chronic GI symptoms. This diagnosis was later rescinded and fludrocortisone was discontinued.
In July 2015, the patient was admitted to hospital for 1 month for a right-sided parapneumonic effusion that failed conservative management. She underwent a thoracoscopic decortication and pleurectomy and did well post-operatively. During this admission, a TTE was done to rule out infective endocarditis. The August 2015 TTE demonstrated mildly elevated estimated right ventricular systolic pressure but was otherwise unremarkable (Table ).
The patient remained out of hospital until the following year when she was admitted for recurring abdominal pain and diarrhea in July 2016. This time her stool initially tested positive for Clostridium difficile toxin B gene.