Herein we present a case of 62-year-old male who presented to our institution with a painful lump in his left breast with chronic sinus formation and pus discharge. According to the patient, the lump had been noticed for one month. The patient had loss of appetite and weight loss. The patient had a history of a common room with his colleagues during trip to an Asian country. The patient did not have any past or family history of pulmonary or extra-pulmonary tuberculosis. He was neither immune-compromised nor a smoker without any comorbidities. On physical examination, the left breast was tender, and an irregular mass of 3 x 2 cm was felt in upper outer quadrant of the left breast with multiple palpable axillary lymph nodes. Hematological and biochemical parameters were within normal limits, including negative testing for HIV. His initial workup included a mammogram which revealed irregular soft tissue density mass in upper outer quadrant of left breast (Figure ).
This was followed by ultrasound which showed irregular communicating branching sinus tracts (Figure ). These were found extending towards left axilla.
There were multiple enlarged lymph nodes in ipsilateral axilla with thickened cortices. The largest one was measuring 2.3 x 1.5 cm with cortical thickness of 0.98 cm (Figure ).
A high possibility was raised for communication of these lymph nodes with the sinus tracts leading our diagnosis more towards tuberculosis.
Patient's chest radiograph was normal without any evidence of parenchymal or pleural abnormality. The patient then underwent lymph node biopsy to rule out malignant etiology and to confirm the radiological diagnosis. Histopathology (images not available) revealed multiple epithelioid granulomas and multinucleated Langhan's type giant cells. Acute inflammatory exudate was also noted along with areas of caseous necrosis. There was no evidence of malignancy. It was concluded as chronic granulomatous inflammation with necrosis favoring tuberculosis. Histopathology was concordant with imaging and showed chronic granulomatous inflammation with necrosis. The patient received oral anti-tuberculosis therapy for six months without side