A 63-year-old Hispanic female, with a past medical history of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) and a 60 pack-year smoking history, presented to the emergency department (ED) complaining of new-onset generalized weakness for the past three days with associated frontal headaches. The remaining review of systems was reported as negative and she was vitally stable.
She was alert and cooperative. Her cranial nerves were intact. Her motor exam, however, was abnormal, with motor strength in the left upper extremity (LUE) being 4/5. The strength and tone of the other extremities were normal throughout. Deep tendon reflexes were decreased bilaterally, but her gait could not be evaluated. Her sensory function was decreased to pin sensation at the LUE and bilateral lower extremities (LEs). Normal sensation was noted in the right upper extremity and face. Laboratory testing was normal. Computer tomography (CT) of the brain was done, revealing a large area of intraparenchymal hemorrhage within the right parietal lobe and a smaller area within the right frontal lobe with surrounding vasogenic edema and a mild rightward midline shift, suggestive of an underlying neoplastic lesion, as can be seen in Figure . Brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the brain delineated a right parietal lobe rim-enhancing lesion measuring up to 39 x 27 mm and a right frontal lobe rim-enhancing lesion with increased enhancement at the anterior aspect measuring up to 21 x 17 mm, as observed in Figure . Computed tomography (CT) of the chest with contrast demonstrated multiple pulmonary masses with a dominant left upper lobe of 4 cm mass, as well as a complex septate cystic 2.5 cm mass in the right kidney, as can be observed in Figure .
In order to improve the patient's clinical status and obtain an accurate diagnosis, the patient underwent right frontoparietal craniotomy and resection of the hemorrhagic brain lesion. Pathology was amended as poorly differentiated non-small cell type carcinoma, favoring a large cell