A 68-year-old non-smoking Chinese woman with SIT was referred to our hospital because of an abnormal shadow on chest radiography for 4 days. Chest computed tomography (CT) showed an irregularly shaped nodule (measuring 38 × 27 mm in diameter) in the pleural area of the left lower lobe and SIT () and a 5-mm nodule in the dorsal segment of the lower lobe of the left lung (). Bronchoscopy confirmed that the left and right bronchial branches were mirror images of each other. Because we were unable to obtain a definitive diagnosis by the bronchoscopic approach, we performed CT-guided percutaneous lung biopsy and surgery was planned for diagnosis and treatment. Intraoperatively, we established that the location of the superior vena cava and azygos vein mirrored the normal distribution, and that the aortic arch was absent from the left thoracic cavity. The left lung was well lobulated into three lobes and the anatomy of the left side of the pulmonary artery had features typical of the normal right side.
On 9 January 2018, the patient underwent thoracoscopic wedge resection of the left lower lobe of the lung plus lymphadenectomy. The tumor was located in the lower left lobe. The location of the lesion in the basal segment was obvious and the interlobar fissure was removed. Wedge resection of the two lesions was performed to remove the lesions and they were sent for rapid pathology. Pathology showed that the tumor in the dorsal segment of the left lower lobe was adenocarcinoma in situ (0.5 cm in diameter) and the mass in the basal segment was a fusiform cell soft tissue tumor with sclerotic, slightly heteromorphic cells. These findings suggested that we should treat the lesions as borderline tumors. Precise diagnosis needed to be performed by immunohistochemistry. The lymph nodes of 11 groups were removed.
Postoperative pathology showed that the tumor in the dorsal segment of the lower left lobe was adenocarcinoma in situ (0.6 × 0.5 cm), without invasion of the local pulmonary capsule and without