A 17-year-old female patient with a known case of bronchial asthma was admitted to the Department of Neurology, King Saud Medical City, Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, for an acute onset of seizure and headache that persisted for 5 days. Brain CT revealed no abnormality, and anti-epileptic agents were started. The doctors consulted the Department of Rheumatology because the patient had a history of joint pain and skin rash.
The patient’s history was retrospectively explored. She further reported the following findings: history of fatigue, right-side facial palsy and right lower limb numbness for approximately 1 year; history of runny nose, nasal ulcers, epistaxis, tinnitus and unilateral right ear pain with a yellowish discharge for the last 6 months; history of productive cough with yellowish sputum and haemoptysis on one occasion and no fever or chest pain during the last 6 months; 7% weight loss (body mass index=28) and poor appetite over the last 6 months; history of haematuria for the last 2 months and history of multiple joint pain involving the hips, knees and small joints of the hands associated with skin rash over the dorsum of the right foot. There was no family history of similar condition or any hereditary disease. Social history revealed that she is single, living with her family with good socioeconomic status, good academic performance and no history of smoking, alcohol or any substances abuse.
The general physical examination revealed noticeable facial asymmetry with a depressed nasal bridge, nasal ulcers, septal perforation, bilateral pitting pedal oedema (grade II) and petechial and purpuric skin rashes with haemorrhagic crust over the dorsum of the right foot (). The chest examination revealed bilateral fine crackles over the upper lobes. The neurological examination revealed right-sided lower motor neuron facial palsy grade IV according to the House and Brackmann scale. The remaining neurological and systemic examinations were normal.
Laboratory investigations uncovered elevation of acute-