A 60-year-old man was admitted with acute onset of confusion, personality change, and intermittent headache. His symptoms worsened over three days prior to admission. There was no history of nausea, vomiting, fever, or seizures. His past medical history was significant for hypertension, but he was not using any medications. He was a non-smoker and never consumed alcohol. In the emergency department, vital signs including blood pressure and temperature were normal. He was confused, disoriented to time and place with no neck rigidity or stiffness. Neurological examination showed a normal tone and power (muscle strength by medical research council scale) with normal symmetrical deep tendon reflexes. His gait was normal, but the examination of coordination and fundi was difficult to perform. Unenhanced computerized tomography (CT) scan of the brain was normal. The patient was taken to the magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) suite, but he was moving and irritable, which made this imaging modality difficult to perform. Routine investigations revealed normal biochemical tests and inflammatory markers. His white blood cells (WBC) count revealed a leukocytosis (20,000) with normal platelets and hemoglobin. Blood and urine cultures and chest radiographs were unremarkable. Examination of cerebrospinal fluid revealed no WBCs or red blood cells, normal glucose and protein with negative gram stain and culture. Polymerase chain reaction tests were negative for common viral pathogens. Electroencephalogram recordings showed a slow background in the theta range with no epileptiform activity or evidence of encephalitis. Two days after admission, his condition deteriorated, and he became more agitated and combative with a drop in his blood pressure to 80/40 mmHg and tachycardia (120 bpm). He was intubated and mechanically ventilated, but unfortunately, his Glasgow coma scale dropped. His pupils became fixed and dilated. Repeat work-up of septic shock was again unremarkable, and he required inotropic support. Another CT of the brain with imaging of the vascular system was performed, which demonstrated basilar artery thrombosis and ischemic