A 62-year-old previously well male presented to the emergency department with sudden onset right lower quadrant abdominal pain. A computed tomography (CT) of the abdomen demonstrated an inflamed appendix with enlarged locoregional lymph nodes along with a 4-cm lesion in the right adrenal gland with central necrosis. Incidentally, there was also found to be a 64 mm × 53 mm × 51 mm mass in the right lower lobe of the lung with several satellite lesions in the right lower and middle lobes (Fig. ). The patient was admitted and commenced on intravenous amoxicillin and clavulanic acid.
The patient is a lifelong non-smoker and had no respiratory symptoms at presentation. He was fit and physically active and had no family history of malignancy. Other significant medical history included erosive osteoarthritis, obstructive sleep apnoea, diverticular disease, and a previous squamous cell skin cancer excised from his right thigh with clear margins. He had undergone a colonoscopy four years prior which had revealed diverticulosis with no lesions suspicious for malignancy.
On day 2 of his admission, he underwent a laparoscopic appendicectomy which revealed a very thick and erythematous appendix adhered to the mesocolon. Once recovered on day 5 of admission, the patient underwent an endobronchial ultrasound-guided biopsy of his subcarinal lymph nodes which revealed adenocarcinoma. The specimen stained positive for cytokeratin 7 (CK-7), thyroid transcription factor 1 (TTF-1), and napsin A which suggested a primary lung cancer. The adenocarcinoma was diffusely positive for epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) exon 19 mutation and negative for both anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK) and c-ros oncogene 1 (ROS-1) mutations (Fig. ).
The anatomical pathology from the appendicectomy then revealed an adenocarcinoma with an identical immunohistochemical profile with lymphovascular invasion and involvement of the mesoappendix. A subsequent fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) positron emission tomography (PET) scan demonstrated diffuse metastatic disease with bone, pancreas, and brain metastasis, confirmed