A 25-year-old female patient who had sudden painless blurred vision in her right eye 3 months ago admitted to the clinic. Her visual acuity was 20/20 (LogMAR 0.00) in both eyes. Intraocular pressures were 16 and 14 mm Hg in the right and left eyes, respectively. Pupils were round and reactive in both eyes without evidence of the relative afferent pupillary defect in either eye. Biomicroscopy of the anterior segments were unremarkable. Dilated fundus exams revealed mildly attenuation and tortuosity of retinal arteries in both eyes. Three months ago, in the right eye fundus photo; intensive, extensive pallor and retinal edema in the lower quadrant of the retina due to inferotemporal BRAO was seen []. No embolic plaques were noted. The red-free photograph of the right eye greatly accentuates the retinal whitening and attenuation of the inferotemporal retinal artery []. Optical coherence tomography of the right eye showed normal foveal contour with inner retinal ischemia and thickening, with shadowing of the photoreceptors and retinal pigment epithelial layer consistent with an acute inferotemporal BRAO []. Fundus examination and images taken in our clinic at the 3rd month confirmed the recovery of retinal edema in the right eye []. Attenuation of the inferotemporal retinal artery still mildly appeared []. Applied confrontation fields (standard automated perimetry, program test 30-2) showed a visual field defect corresponding with the affected area in the right eye and normal visual field in the left eye. Informed consent was taken from the patient to report this case.
There was no history of smoking, migraine, systemic, infectious disease, malignancy, trauma, medication, or surgery. Cardiological and neurological evaluations were reported as normal in another center. The results of magnetic resonance imaging of the brain and orbita, electrocardiogram and echocardiography, Doppler ultrasound imaging of the carotid arteries were normal. Evaluation for potential stroke factors revealed no suggestive family history.