A 27-year-old woman presented with progressively worsening chest tightness and shortness of breath on exertion.
Six years ago, the patient began to experience chest distress and shortness of breath after activity, which was relieved after rest. The patient had occasional tussiculation but no paroxysmal dyspnea. She had low energy and lack of appetite, but her sleep quality was fair. The patient’s growth and development were within the normal range. Over time, the symptoms of chest tightness worsened, and were accompanied by dizziness and numbness of the extremities.
The patient had a history of incomplete abortion one year ago and had been treated with induced abortion.
The patient had never smoked and had no family history of heart or lung disease. She had congenital heart disease since childhood without standard treatment. The patient stated that she had a "cold" once a month. Symptoms such as shortness of breath and weakness appeared after walking up one flight of stairs and the symptoms were relieved after rest.
On admission, her blood pressure was 100/64 mmHg in both arms and her heart rate was approximately 74 bpm. Physical examination revealed that her heart rate was regular, and there was a 3/6 systolic murmur on the aortic second auscultation area. She had cyanotic lips and clubbing of her fingers.
Routine laboratory examinations were within normal limits.
The patient underwent multimodal imaging. A transthoracic echocardiogram revealed that the main pulmonary artery was dilated with a diameter of 54 mm. There was an abnormal passage between the descending aorta and pulmonary artery with an inner diameter of 9 mm. The entire heart was enlarged. The continuity of the ventricular septal outflow tract was interrupted, and the defect size was approximately 14 mm. Doppler ultrasound evaluation found bidirectional reflux of abnormal channels between the descending aorta and pulmonary artery, which was thought to be a patent ductus arteriosus (PDA) in the interrupted region (Figure ). Chest radiography showed an enlarged heart shadow, a