A 40-year-old male presented with a large, purulent ulcer on his right buttock for several months, accompanied by multiple deep-seated abscesses and sinus tracts on both buttocks (). He had a 20-year history of HS which started in his late teens. The patient was a current smoker, and reported smoking one-pack of cigarretes per day since his age of 20 years. Initial treatment was focused on systemic antibiotics and antiseptic dressings to reduce burden of infection and facilitate wound healing. The lesion showed some reduction in size after 6 weeks, but also developed foul odor and fungating margins (). Skin biopsy of the fungating margin showed downward dermal infiltration of irregular masses consisting of atypical epidermal cells and some mitoses (). Although pseudoepitheliomatous hyperplasia (PEH) may be misinterpretated as SCC in that it shows irregular epidermal hyperplasia and downward infiltrative pattern, SCC can be distinguished from PEH by significant atypical epithelial cells mitoses. Thus in our case, PEH was ruled out and the skin biopsy was consistent with moderately differentiated invasive cutaneous SCC. Multiple additional scout biopsies all showed the same features of cutaneous SCC, even in papules distant from the ulcer (). Magnetic resonance imaging showed a large infiltrating mass on the skin covering the right buttock and a few enlarged lymph nodes on the right inguinal area with increased signal density (). Chest X-rays and abdominal computed tomography scan showed no sign of distant metastasis.
Due to broadness and infiltrative character, slow MMS was performed with sentinel lymph node biopsy, which proved to be positive for metastasis on frozen pathology. Radical inguinal lymph node dissection of the right side was done additionally. The pathology of 1st stage of slow MMS revealed presence of carcinoma in 3 sections out of 29 lateral marginal sections, and 3 sections out of 38 base marginal sections. For this reason, the 2nd stage was performed, which showed negative of tumor in the all lateral