A 29-year-old male complaining of bilateral forearm tingling and bilateral upper extremity weakness visited the outpatient clinic of our department.
His primary symptoms were bilateral forearm tingling and pain. These symptoms began 6 mo prior to the visit. Within a few days, bilateral upper extremity weakness also began. There was no improvement in symptoms for several weeks. Thus, he visited the neurology department of another hospital. Under suspicion of radiculopathy, cervical spine magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) with enhancement and electrodiagnostic study were performed. However, abnormalities were not found. During the follow-up period at that hospital, brain MRI, computed tomography, and arteriography of the left upper extremity were performed, but a diagnosis could not be made.
Later, when the patient visited the hospital, he complained of bilateral forearm tingling, weakness, and bilateral arm muscle spasms.
The patient was not taking any medications and had no previous diagnoses. The patient did not have any history of hospitalization or surgery.
He had no familial history of congenital, allergic, or systemic disease. The patient smoked approximately half a pack of cigarettes a day for 5 years and did not drink alcohol.
On physical examination, no external wound was observed. The circumference of both arms was not different and distinct atrophy of biceps or deltoid muscles was not present. The range of motion for both shoulders and elbow joints was not limited. The pain was not aggravated by movement.
Paresthesia was present in both forearms, but the symptom site did not match with peripheral nerve distribution or cervical root dermatome. Manual muscle testing was grade 5 throughout the right and left upper extremities except in bilateral elbow and shoulder flexion. Manual muscle test of bilateral elbow and shoulder flexion showed grade 4. The patient could flex both his elbows with a 2 kg dumbbell but not with a 5 kg. The deep tendon reflex of both bicep muscles was symmetrically decreased.
Before the symptoms