A 66-year-old man presented to the department of internal medicine with history of fever, cough, and difficulty in breathing and exertional chest pain. He had past history of hypertension, diabetes (diabetic nephropathy, estimated glomerular filtration rate 45 mL/min), and smoking. On admission, he was febrile and breathless. The chest had bilateral rhonchi and basal crepts. His blood sugar was 465 mg/dL and the ketone levels were high in urine. Arterial blood gas estimation showed metabolic acidosis. Other blood tests are summarized in . Chest X-ray showed increased bronchovascular markings in both the lower lobes (). Computed tomography (CT) scan chest showed bilateral pneumonic consolidation in the lower lobes (). He was managed with insulin, antibiotics, intravenous fluids, and the ketoacidosis was corrected. Reverse transcription–polymerase chain reaction for COVID-19 was negative.
On Day 3 of admission, he had severe chest pain and breathlessness with hypotension and the electrocardiogram (EKG) showed junctional rhythm with ST-elevation in inferior and lateral leads (). He was noted to be in acute left ventricular failure and required mechanical ventilation to maintain oxygen levels. Bedside echocardiogram showed that the patient had moderate to severe mitral regurgitation and severe left ventricular systolic dysfunction. He was given ticagrelor 180 mg and aspirin 325 mg orally and started on inotropes and diuretics and shifted to cardiac cath lab for primary angioplasty. The procedure was performed through the right femoral route (6F artery and 7F vein accessed). Additional 5F arterial sheath was introduced through the left side in preparation for need of emergent left ventricular support device. Coronary angiogram revealed a chronic total occlusion of right coronary artery. There was 30–40% stenosis in distal left main and 80% stenosis of osteoproximal left circumflex artery (Video 1). The left anterior descending artery was free of significant disease. Percutaneous coronary intervention was done and a stent was implanted from left main to left circumflex artery