A 56-year-old woman was admitted to the hospital for psychosis, paranoia, hallucinations, and seizures. Two months before admission, she presented to her primary care physician with right upper extremity numbness and an MRI of the cervical spine that revealed degenerative disc disease. During the following weeks, she developed paranoia, psychosis, and hallucinations, leading to admission at a psychiatric facility. According to the evaluation and treatment of her psychiatric symptoms, the patient was transferred to a medical facility for further workup and to rule out organic causes.
Her past medical history included insomnia treated with zolpidem, but no prior psychiatric disorder. Surgical history was notable for left knee arthroscopy. Her family history included Alzheimer's dementia in her father and a brain tumor in her mother. The patient was living independently and was working before admission. She was a former smoker who did not consume alcohol, marijuana, or other drugs.
On initial presentation to the medical facility, EEG demonstrated focal subclinical seizures originating from the left temporal region. Continuous EEG confirmed frequent seizures, and she was started on multiple anti-epileptic drugs (AEDs), including fosphenytoin, phenytoin, lacosamide, divalproex, and levetiracetam. Her seizures were refractory to medical therapy, and the patient required intubation for airway protection. Brain MRI demonstrated no acute intracranial findings, including no findings specific for encephalitis but incidentally revealed a small right superior frontoparietal paramedian meningioma. Infectious workup, toxicology, blood counts, and electrolytes were all within normal limits, and we could not identify a cause for her seizures and changes in mental status. Computed tomography (CT) of the chest, abdomen, and pelvis revealed a 2.5-cm mass in the right breast with associated right axillary lymphadenopathy and no evidence of distant metastatic disease. Diagnostic lumbar puncture was performed and CSF analysis revealed a cell count of 4 white blood cells (WBC) (reference range, < 5 WBC), 324 red blood cells