On December 13, 2016, a 30-year-old Han Chinese woman in 34+6 wk of pregnancy was admitted to the Department of Obstetrics, First Hospital of Jilin University, due to premature rupture of the fetal membrane and regular contractions for 7 h.
The patient reported no menstrual abnormalities. Her last menstrual period was on April 13, 2016, and the expected delivery date was January 20, 2017. She did not undergo regular prenatal examinations during her pregnancy.
The patient reported a development delay in learning to walk at the age of 6 years and had poor exercise endurance. She usually experienced troubled breathing, dizziness, and heavy perspiration after fast walking or running. However, she had not undergone systematic diagnostic procedure and had not been diagnosed officially.
The patient was unemployed, and had no history of smoking or drinking. No pertinent family history was presented.
A physical examination upon admission revealed that her general condition was poor (temperature: 36.5 °C, pulse: 126 beats per min, respiratory rate: 28 breaths per min, blood pressure: 153/78 mmHg, oxygen saturation: 83%), and she exhibited cyanosis and shortness of breath. An abdominal examination revealed that she was in the third trimester, and the fetal heart rate was 145 beats per min. Pelvic examination revealed that her cervix was dilated to approximately 10 cm.
The patient’s serum troponin level was normal, as were her liver function, renal function, and routine blood test results.
No imaging examination was performed in the Department of Obstetrics because of the emergency situation.
She was transferred to the labor room immediately. Considering her low oxygen saturation, a heart disease could not be ruled out. Therefore, perineal incision and forceps were used to assist the vaginal delivery and shorten the second stage of labor. A pre-term female neonate was delivered vaginally. Fentanyl (0.002 mg/kg) was slowly intravenously injected to relieve her pain and reduce the cardiac