A 79-year-old female was admitted after a first seizure. She had a past medical history 12 years prior of an unruptured left MCA aneurysm treated with endovascular treatment with bare platinum coils. The patient had no past medical history of HBP, DM, vasculopathy or coagulopathy, and no history of smoking. No family history of ruptured/unruptured aneurysm was reported. MR and magnetic resonance angiography images before treatment showed a 10 mm left MCA aneurysm with minimal surrounding PE (, ). Sagittal T1-weighted images suggested the presence of a hyperintense intraluminal clot within the aneurysm (). On neuroimaging performed 2 days after endovascular embolization with coils, no signs of residual aneurysmal sac perfusion were observed on 3D-time of flight (TOF) images (), and the amount of PE was stable. The coiled aneurysm and the surrounding vasogenic edema remained unchanged over several imaging follow-ups. However, MRI performed 4 years after the initial treatment showed increased PE without evidence of aneurysm recanalization (, ). On a follow-up MRI, 8 years after the initial treatment, the aneurysm demonstrated a slight enlargement in size. The surrounding vasogenic edema was also mildly increased from prior studies, despite the absence of intraluminal flow on angiographic 3D-TOF images (, ). In addition, a new focus on the T1 hyperintense signal was observed along the aneurysm fundus on both TOF and T1-weighted images, reflecting new intraluminal clot formation (–). Because of the absence of aneurysm recanalization and the evidence of new clot formation, we interpreted the subtle enlargement of the aneurysm as a result of aneurysm-wall remodeling. The coil mass within the aneurysm lumen did not show any significant change in morphology compared to previous studies.
MRI on admission, almost 12 years after endovascular treatment, showed markedly increased vasogenic edema extending to the white matter of the left temporal and parietal lobes, insula, and internal capsule with mild mass effect on the temporal horn of the left ventricle. The left temporal gyri appeared