A total laparoscopic hysterectomy combined with low anterior resection of the rectum and appendectomy for deep invasive endometriosis was performed in a 44-year-old nulliparous premenopausal woman. An ultrasonic dissection device (Sonicision) was used for this procedure. The same device was used during colpotomy. The vagina was closed laparoscopically using a 2–0 vicryl running suturing technique with clips. A standard single dose of preoperative antibiotic prophylaxis was administered. The surgery and postoperative course were uneventful.
Sixteen months later, she presented due to persistent complaints, especially of pain of the vaginal top during sexual intercourse. Her medical history was unremarkable except for surgery for endometriosis mentioned above. She had a normal bodyweight (body mass index 24), and besides a 10-pack year history of cigarette smoking no risk factors for impaired wound healing were identified. She was planned for repeat surgery for endometriosis. Ovariectomy, coagulation of the infundibulopelvic ligament and laparoscopic excision of the vaginal vault were performed. After mobilisation of the bladder, the vaginal vault was excised with an ultrasonic excision system and closed laparoscopically with a vicryl 0 running suture. A standard single dose of preoperative antibiotic prophylaxis was administered. Histological analysis revealed inflammation of the vagina without evident endometriosis.
Ten weeks after surgery, she presented to our emergency department with severe abdominal pain after sexual intercourse. On examination, vaginal dehiscence was seen with exposure of fat tissue, probably omentum. Since the pain disappeared shortly after hospitalisation and no evisceration was seen, she was planned for a laparoscopic repair with an omental flap.
During laparoscopic repair the omentum was found to be stuck in the 1.5 cm vaginal dehiscence. First, the omentum was easily removed from the dehiscence. As the omentum was long enough to reach the vaginal cuff without traction, it was not necessary to create an omental flap as in the first case. The vaginal cuff was refreshed and interrupted vicryl 2–0 sutures