A 37-year-old premenopausal woman underwent a laparoscopic hysterectomy due to endometriosis not responding to conservative treatment. During laparoscopic hysterectomy a monopolar hook was used to open the vagina. A LigaSure device was used to complete the colpotomy. The vaginal vault was closed laparoscopically with a running 3/0 barbed monofilament suture. Standard preoperative antibiotics were administered.
She presented to our tertiary endometriosis centre 5 years after laparoscopic hysterectomy with complaints of deep dyspareunia and abdominal pain. Her medical history was otherwise unremarkable with two spontaneous vaginal deliveries and normal bodyweight (body mass index 20.3). She had no risk factors for impaired wound healing such as cigarette smoking, diabetes or steroid use.
Physical examination, vaginal ultrasound and MRI results indicated the likely presence of a deep endometriotic lesion at the top of the vagina. An uncomplicated laparoscopic resection of the lesion was performed using Sonicision. The vagina was closed laparoscopically using a 2–0 vicryl running suturing technique with clips. According to the local protocol a single dose of cefazolin 2 g and metronidazole 500 mg were given intravenously just before the induction of anaesthesia for infection prophylaxis. Endometriosis was histologically confirmed.
Six weeks later the patient presented to our emergency department with vaginal pain and a bloody vaginal discharge after sexual intercourse. Examination revealed a vaginal cuff dehiscence. A 3 cm loop of small intestine was visible in the upper vagina. The intestine showed no signs of ischaemia or laceration and looked vital with healthy peristalsis. Since she came directly to the hospital and no bowel necrosis or injury was suspected, she was treated via a vaginal approach. Simple repositioning of the small bowel was performed. The peritoneum was closed with a vicryl 2–0 running suture. The vaginal cuff was closed by interrupted sutures using vicryl 1–0. A standard single dose of preoperative antibiotic prophylaxis was administered. Shortly after this uneventful procedure she was discharged from hospital.
At postoperative check