A 49-year-old Bedouin female with a past medical history of tobacco use presented with a painful lesion in right side of the chest wall in May 2019. Chest X-ray showed lytic lesions with rib fracture (Fig. ) and a chest CT-scan showed lytic lesion of the seventh rib (Fig. ). Biopsy of the affected rib showed histological findings and immunostaining results compatible with angio-lymphoid hyperplasia with eosinophilia and EH (Fig. ). To evaluate for metastasis and other lesions, a positron emission tomography, computed tomography (PET-CT) was performed showing lytic and sclerotic changes and deformity without significant pathologic uptake in the seventh rib and without distant metastasis.
A right thoracoscopic biopsy using a 5-mm camera was performed taking several samples from the rib. The tumor was seen protruding without penetration into the pleural space. Explorative thoracoscopy showed intact pleura with proper hemostasis and inflation of the lung. The latissimus dorsi muscle and incision were closed without leaving a chest drain.
Biopsy results were compatible with angio-lymphoid hyperplasia with eosinophilia and in this case, EH (Fig. ). The surgical margins could not be assessed, as the specimen was in fragments. Therefore, excision of the lesion was recommended.
Following the surgery, the patient was readmitted to the hospital several times with severe right chest pain under maximum analgesic treatment. After other chest pain pathologies were excluded, the decision was made to perform a rib resection.
In January 2020, the rib resection was performed through a small incision on the previous surgical scar with two additional incisions for thoracoscopy control and instrument insertion. Tissue was dissected throughout the length of the seventh rib using periosteal elevator and diathermy. The rib was cut posteriorly near the vertebra and anteriorly on cartilage using a Dennis rib cutter. Separation of the rib was done thoracoscopically from the incision on the previous surgical scar, and the rib was extracted completely.