A 56-year-old Caucasian female was referred to our cardiology clinic with fatigue, forgetfulness, visual abnormalities, chest heaviness, abdominal bloating, and peripheral edema. The patient’s past medical history includes infiltrating ductal breast carcinoma with mastectomy and chemotherapy, 18 years prior, and access port thrombosis necessitated removal at that time. She drinks occasional alcohol but has never used tobacco or illicit drugs. Her family history was remarkable for malignancy.
The patient had a recent brain computed tomography (CT) scan demonstrating multiple lesions concerning possible demyelinating disease or malignancy. Subsequent brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) with contrast confirmed enhancing lesions in the left inferior frontal lobe, the left posterior Globus Pallidus, and the right parietal white matter with associated edema on FLAIR images (). CT scan of chest, abdomen, and pelvis performed to scan for other lesions revealed an incidental calcified right atrial (RA) mass measuring 4.5 × 2.5 × 4.5 cm, which appeared to extend through the tricuspid valve into the right ventricle (RV). Transthoracic echocardiogram (TTE) and transesophageal echocardiogram (TEE) confirmed the presence of a calcified 4-cm RA mass without a mobile component and with no valvular pathology, nor patent foramen ovale (; ). This mass was not identified on TTE performed 5 months earlier. Cardiac MRI further defined the mass as a probable calcified RA thrombus with extension into the RV, inferior vena cava, and superior vena cava with no enhancement to suggest metastatic disease (). The patient was started on anticoagulation with Apixaban and advised to follow-up with TTE. Repeat TTE a few months later indicated an apparent increase in the size of the RA mass. The initial decision was made to monitor the mass and the patient was then referred to our clinic for a second opinion.
The case was discussed with interventional cardiology, and cardiovascular surgery and surgical excision with biopsy was recommended. At the time of admission to our hospital for surgery