A 58-year-old man was referred to the ER of our hospital in March 2019, having a cerebral vascular accident. His medical history reported high blood pressure and hypercholesterolemia. He had quit smoking in 2018 (40 pack-years).
Despite initiation of anticoagulants, he suffered from recurrent strokes, and in May 2019, a cardiology work-up CT scan revealed a lobular mass located in the left atrium of the heart. The tumour rather resembled a cardiac myxoma than a thrombus and was best visible on a contrast CT scan and ultrasound (Fig. ).
Cardiac surgery was performed, and a mucinous tumour, attached to the wall of the left atrium and left lower pulmonary vein, was removed. The tumour could easily be excised, and frozen sections were not conclusive. The resection was macroscopically complete.
Definitive histology showed a lesion at the transition of the left lower pulmonary vein to the left atrium consisting of a proliferation of mesenchymal cells with moderate cytonuclear atypia and varying cellularity. Part of the lesion protruded into the lumen, and part of the lesion showed an invasive growth pattern. CDK4+ and MDM2+ amplification, as determined by multiplex ligation-dependent probe amplification, was positive, which is characteristic of an intimal sarcoma, a very rare tumour belonging to the class of malignant soft tissue sarcomas. Microscopically, the resection margins contained tumour tissue, so the resection was considered incomplete.
A PET-CT scan for staging did not show any metastases. No adjuvant systemic treatment was given, and the patient remained symptom free until November 2019, when he had another stroke. On the CT scan, a small lesion at the base of the resection area was seen, suspicious for local recurrence (Fig. ). As re-surgery was not an option, after multidisciplinary board discussions, the patient was referred to the radiotherapy department. It was decided to irradiate the tumour with stereotactic MR-guided online adaptive radiation therapy (SMART), to a high dose, i.e. 60 Gy in 12