A 70-year-old female presented to our hospital with a periumbilical abdominal lump associated with intermittent colicky abdominal pain. There was a rapid increase in size of the lump in the past few weeks. On evaluation, the abdominal examination revealed a well-defined, freely mobile, firm, intra-abdominal lump approximately 20 × 15 cm in size, occupying the left hypogastrium and paraumbilical region. Ultrasonography (USG) followed by contrast enhanced computed tomography (CECT) scan revealed a heterogeneous enhancing mass lesion, arising from the mesentery of small bowel, without any obvious involvement of the bowel (
).
Exploratory laparotomy revealed a mobile, lobulated, highly vascular mass of variegated consistency in the mesoileum, about two feet proximal to ileocecal junction. The adjoining bowel was pushed to the periphery of the mass, without evidence of any gross involvement. A few other smaller nodules were present in the adjacent mesentery, near the mass, mimicking enlarged mesenteric lymph nodes without any evidence of involvement of other adjacent organs. En bloc resection of the mass along the mesenteric nodules and the adjacent small bowel was done followed by an end to end anastomosis (
). Multiple other smaller nodules in the adjacent mesentery of the small bowel were left behind assuming them to be enlarged lymph nodes (
). Histopathological examination of the tumor revealed long interlacing fascicles of malignant spindle cells with plump to cigar shaped blunt end nuclei with granular chromatin, moderate amount of eosinophilic granular cytoplasm, and ill-defined cytoplasmic border (
and
). Average mitotic rate was more than 5/50 high-power fields with large areas of necrosis, hemorrhage, and cystic degeneration. The overlying bowel wall was free from the tumor (
). The nodule which was sent separately assuming it to be lymph nodes was having same features of malignant eGIST without any lymphoid tissue. Immunohistochemical examination revealed the tumor to be strongly positive for cluster differentiation (CD