A 76-year-old female presented to the emergency department in March 2019, with progressive weakness, fatigue, and weight loss of over 20 pounds over a period of 3 months and was admitted to the Internal Medicine Service. Her past medical history included stage-3 chronic kidney disease, peripheral vascular disease with multiple bypass surgeries, gastroesophageal reflux disease, gout, appendectomy, and hysterectomy for uterine cancer. She was also a former smoker with a 35 pack-year history having quit 22 years prior.
Initial investigations found her significantly malnourished and anemic, with multiple electrolyte disturbances including profound hypercalcemia. A computed tomography (CT) scan of her abdomen demonstrated a 6 cm mass-like lesion arising from the upper pole of the right kidney with a single prominent retrocaval lymph node measuring 1.1 cm, with no evidence of further metastatic disease []. Her clinical condition improved with medical optimization including blood transfusions, hydration, and oral nutritional support. Initially, this mass was felt to be consistent with xanthogranulomatous pyelonephritis by the consulting urology service. Follow-up and biopsy of the lesion were arranged as an outpatient, with a tentative plan for a nephrectomy in April 2019, once the patient had been medically optimized.
The biopsy demonstrated a poorly differentiated carcinoma with squamous differentiation. With this diagnosis, further investigations including cystoscopy, urine cytology, and CT chest imaging were performed, all of which were normal. Throughout these investigations, her overall performance status began to deteriorate with progressive weakness and anemia after her discharge from hospital.
Given the patient's decline, and after a discussion of her case at multidisciplinary oncology rounds, the plan was to proceed with a right radical nephrectomy with the goal to improve her symptoms and oncological outcomes. It was thought that her anemia and functional decline would progress further without active management of her cancer. A repeat preoperative CT scan demonstrated a significant interval progression of the disease in a 20-day period []. The renal mass was now found to be locally invasive with