A 75-year-old Caucasian female was referred to the Medical Ophthalmology Clinic from a neighboring ophthalmology unit with a 3-week history of floaters and progressive visual loss. Her medical history was noteworthy for rheumatoid arthritis (no immunosuppressive treatment) and hypertension. She had a significant smoking history (50 pack years). Systemic enquiry revealed that she had lost approximately 6 kg in weight unintentionally over the preceding month.
Marked optic nerve head swelling was noted in the presence of vitreous cells. Her visual acuities were 6/60 and 6/24 in her right and left eyes respectively. Neurological examination normal. Steroid therapy in the form of oral prednisolone led to significant improvement. The swelling of her optic nerves significantly reduced as did the vitreous haze. Her vision had improved in her right eye to 6/24 and her vision in her left eye improved to 6/9.
The MRI of head () with contrast showed no evidence of venous thrombosis, no meningeal enhancement or space occupying lesion, but the radiologist questioned whether the white matter lesions that had been noted initially were due to ischaemia. They were not typical of neurosarcoid but lumbar puncture was arranged. Serum ACE was not possible as she already took an ACE inhibitor for hypertension.
This showed an opening pressure of 4cm, and a CSF lymphocyte count of 7. There were unmatched oligoclonal bands, and normal cytology. The CT scan of thorax, abdomen and pelvis: no evidence of malignancy.
normal CRP, ESR and FBC. Protein electrophoresis- normal.
Her blood was also sent for antineuronal antibody serology, and showed that CRMP-5 and SOX-1 paraneoplastic antibodies were positive. Therefore, PET scan was arranged which showed mediastinal and left hilar lymphadenopathy () that the radiologist felt was not typical of lymphoma.
Her case was discussed with the respiratory and thoracic teams and lymph node sampling by endobronchial ultrasound was organised, and the mediastinal nodes confirmed small cell lung cancer