A 58-year-old female presented with complaints of visual spots, right arm and right leg weakness, and some difficulty in speaking. Her past medical history included coronary artery disease status post percutaneous intervention, hyperlipidemia, and hypertension on optimal medications such as aspirin, lisinopril, metoprolol, and pravastatin There have been no prior neurological problems except for a similar episode of visual spots one month ago, which resolved on its own. Her family history was significant for coronary artery disease in her father. She quit smoking a month ago after being an active smoker for more than 20 years. Her neurological examination was significant only for right upper extremity weakness. Sensations were intact except for right-sided extinction. Babinski sign was negative, and reflexes were normal. The rest of the systemic examination was unremarkable. Her laboratory investigations revealed normal liver and kidney functions. The complete blood count, HBA1c, and lipid profile were also within the normal range. Her computed tomography (CT) head without contrast revealed an abnormal density in the parietal distribution of the left middle cerebral artery (MCA), consistent with an infarct. Magnetic resonance aortography (MRA) was consistent with significant stenosis of the right vertebral artery and bilateral internal carotid arteries, more on the left side (74%). TTE was negative for any vegetations. The patient had left carotid endarterectomy and was discharged home on two antiplatelet drugs and a high dose of statin.
Two months later, she had a similar presentation of visual floaters and headaches associated with right flank pain, nausea, and low-grade fever. She denied any urinary complains, constipation, diarrhea, or a history of trauma. Neurological examination at this point revealed right arm pronator drift and right arm dysmetria. CT abdomen showed right renal indeterminate hypodense focus and few splenic hypodense foci (Figures -).
The blood cultures and lumbar MRI done for the workup of fever were negative. CT brain revealed old left-sided infarcts.