This case concerns a 43-year-old Colombian woman with a personal history of asthma and a family background of Still’s disease. At the age of 21 years, she went to an alternative therapist for relief from severe diarrhea. The therapist administered an unknown intramuscular alternative medication, shortly after which the patient experienced a seizure-like episode. Ever since, the patient has experienced intermittent and progressive muscle weakness, dyspnea with minimal effort, and fatigue.
The patient initially consulted alternative medicine options and did not attend the allopathic medical specialist while her symptoms were intermittent and moderate for 12 years. She did not visit a general physician until her symptoms worsened and could no longer be managed. At 33 years of age, the patient was hospitalized in a tertiary referral center in Bogotá for two months, where numerous tests were performed, revealing various findings such as severe muscle fatigue in daily life activities, moderate physical deconditioning (functional class III), a moderate decrease in inspiratory and expiratory ventilatory muscle strength, low body mass index (BMI of 19.59 kg/m2), State-Trait Anxiety Inventory score indicating a low state of anxiety (17 points) and medium trait anxiety (21 points), a Beck II depression test indicating minimum range depression (11 points), a change in quality of life in all its dimensions, a deficit in self-care in all of its components, and a change in phonatory pattern. The patient was treated with physical therapy, supervised pulmonary rehabilitation, and nutritional education. She improved her functional capacity and quality of life, but the moderate physical deconditioning persisted.
Over the next four years, the patient presented progressive arthralgia and worsening myalgia and began experiencing new symptoms such as whole body swelling, headache, and nausea after exposure to environmental factors such as pollution, aerosols, personal care products, solvents, paints, and car exhaust smoke. In the history of her illness, the patient presented numerous infections, anaphylactic-like reactions, and