A 56-year-old postmenopausal woman visited our hospital with lower abdominal pain.
The patient presented with repeated pain attacks in the right lower quadrant of the abdomen, accompanied by diarrhea, anorexia, and weight loss for approximately 3 mo. She took diclofenac sodium mucilage 1-2 times daily to relieve the pain, with a pain score ranging from 3 to 4 points.
The patient had hypertension for 3 years. The blood pressure ranged from 120-140/80-100 mmHg after taking nifedipine controlled-release tablets and enalapril. She received laparoscopic cholecystectomy, resection of lateral lobe of the left liver, and choledocholithotomy with exploration because of cholelithiasis. Histologically, there was a large range of related inflammatory epithelial changes including fibrosis, mononuclear infiltrate, and thickening of the muscular layer.
Menarche occurred at 13 years of age, and menstrual cycles were regular, with bleeding typically occurring every 30 d and lasting for 5-6 d. She married at the age of 25 years and had a son and two daughters. The patient had an occasional drink but did not smoke tobacco or use illicit drugs. Her father had died of liver cancer associated with hepatitis B virus, her mother had died of cerebral hemorrhage, one brother had died of cholangiocarcinoma, and another had died of gastric cancer. Her sister and younger brother were healthy.
On examination, there were several hard and painless masses at the left-sided cervical and supraclavicular regions. The largest mass (measuring 2 cm × 3 cm) was located at the lower neck (level IV). There was tenderness in the right lower quadrant. The liver and spleen were impalpable.
The baseline results of laboratory tests and tumor markers are shown in Tables and .
The total abdominal and pelvic contrast-enhanced computed tomography (CT) scan at a local hospital indicated enlarged retroperitoneal lymph nodes measuring 1 cm in diameter and a small amount of pelvic free fluid. There were no obvious occupying lesions in the uterus, bilateral adnexa