Our patient is a 47-year-old gentleman, never-smoker, who presented with the development of right-sided facial numbness in the setting of an enlarging neck mass, which he noticed approximately 7–8 months prior to initial presentation. He was not experiencing pain, and no lymphadenopathy was noted. A CT scan showed a non-specific mass in the right parotid gland, and MRI confirmed a complex cystic and solid mass in the deep lobe, which appeared sharply defined relative to the surrounding parotid (). No regional adenopathy was identified.
Fine needle aspiration of the mass revealed atypical squamous cells in the setting of a cystic lesion, but was largely nondiagnostic. The patient underwent a right-sided parotidectomy with ipsilateral neck dissection of levels I through III. The inferior-most branches of the facial nerve were sacrificed because of adherence to tumor. Pathology of the surgical specimen showed an intermediate grade mucoepidermoid carcinoma, 1.8 cm in greatest dimension, with peripheral cystic changes (). The tumor was confined within the parotid gland and margins were negative, although the closest margin was <1 mm from tumor. Pathology did not reveal lymphovascular or perineural invasion, and zero of 31 lymph nodes were positive for tumor. The patient was staged as pT1, pN0, M0.
Post-operative radiotherapy was recommended due to intraoperative findings of suspicious tumor tracking along the facial nerve, close margins, intermediate grade, and invasion into the deep parotid lobe. A dose of 60 Gy was prescribed to be delivered in 30 fractions using intensity modulated radiation therapy. Radiotherapy was delivered to the right parotidectomy tumor bed including the facial nerve in the stylomastoid foramen and facial canal, and level Ib and II cervical lymph nodes on the right.
The patient tolerated treatment well and was followed at regular intervals. Seven years after initial diagnosis and treatment, the patient developed a nontender mass in the left parotid area, accompanied by left ear pain and pressure. Physical exam