A 58-year-old Italian American man was referred to our institution by his primary care physician for two months of blurry vision, lightheadedness, and gait instability. During that time period, the patient had also noticed left hand weakness and occasional difficulty with word finding. He reported unintentional weight loss as well. His past medical history was significant for microscopic hematuria for which ureterocystoscopy with bladder biopsies had been performed six years previously and was negative for malignancy. He was subsequently noted to have recurrent right nephrolithiasis in the setting of an incompletely duplicated right collecting system and had undergone right ureteropelvic stenting on two occasions, most recently about one year prior to presentation. He was a former smoker who worked in the maintenance department of our institution. He had immigrated to the USA from the Calabria region of Italy approximately 35 years earlier and had last traveled back within the preceding two years. At the time of this admission, he had a blood pressure of 136/79 mmHg, a pulse of 88 beats/min, and an oxygen saturation of 99% while breathing room air. He was afebrile. His physical examination revealed several neurological abnormalities: slight gaze deviation, nystagmus, and mild left upper extremity weakness (4+/5). Routine laboratory evaluation was unremarkable. Computed tomography (CT) of the brain without intravenous contrast was consistent with multifocal vasogenic edema, prompting contrast-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging of the brain, which showed numerous ring-enhancing lesions involving both cerebral and cerebellar hemispheres as well as the basal ganglia, thalami, and brainstem ()). This pattern raised concern for metastatic malignancy. CT of the abdomen and pelvis with contrast ordered in search of a primary site demonstrated right hydronephrosis with ureteral strictures. Ureterocystoscopy was performed to exclude neoplasia, and multiple biopsies were taken, all of which were negative for malignancy. Following the urological procedure, the patient had his first fever of the admission: 39.7°C. After 48 hours of antibiotics