The subject is a 60-year-old white male who was diagnosed with ER/PR+, HER2- breast cancer in 2014. Other listed health conditions for this patient are hyperlipidemia and hypertension; BMI is 30kg/m. No current tobacco or alcohol use; patient is a former smoker. Current medications are listed in . His family history includes two aunts with breast cancer and a brother with pancreatic cancer. In this patient’s case, the risk of having cancer increases significantly due to having a first-degree relative with cancer. Genetic testing was negative for pathogenic mutations. In March of 2014, surgical pathological examination found that the patient had Invasive Ductal Carcinoma grade 3 with two areas being affected. The areas measured 1.2 and 1.0 cm respectively. Later that year, the patient underwent a mastectomy and completed adjuvant radiation to the left chest wall. He was started on adjuvant endocrine therapy with tamoxifen 20 mg daily.
In 2017, the patient returned to the physician after feeling a mass along his mastectomy scar line. He was informed of the recurrence of breast cancer in his left chest wall. Following that diagnosis, the patient transferred his cancer treatment to this location. The patient continued tamoxifen therapy, and adherence was confirmed by patient interview in which the patient stated he rarely missed doses (less than one per month). In 2018, the patient had an excisional biopsy which confirmed that the patient had a tumor consistent with recurrent breast cancer. The patient was scheduled to start chemotherapy in January 2019.
PGx testing was ordered by his oncologist to assist in selecting treatment and supportive care. When PGx test results were returned, a PGx pharmacist consult was ordered by the same oncologist to review medications, discuss the PGx results with the patient, and provide recommendations to the oncologist. PGx testing revealed that the patient is a poor metabolizer of CYP2D6 (*4/*4) and a normal metabolizer of CYP3A4. After the pharmacist reviewed