A 35-year-old woman was referred to the outpatient’s clinic with a long-standing nonunion, persistent pain on a functionless hand and wrist, and a severe angular deformity of her left forearm. Eight years ago, the patient fell from the horse back and sustained a closed bifocal fracture of the radius (radial shaft and distal radius) and a fracture of the ulnar shaft (), initially treated with open reduction and internal fixation (plates and screws for the forearm diaphyseal fractures and a palmar plate for the distal radius fracture) (). According to past medical records, 3 months after the initial procedure, she presented with persistent forearm pain and radiological signs of hardware failure and loosening. She underwent surgical debridement and revision of the osteosynthesis applying new plates and screws enhanced by bone grafting. Intraoperative sample cultures were obtained and one of them proved positive for Escherichia coli. The patient was subsequently given intravenous antibiotics for 3 weeks.
One year later, due to nonunion and presence of a bone gap, she underwent reoperation with “enhancement of the union potential” use of eptotermin alfa, bone morphogenetic proteins, and autologous iliac bone grafting, which were proved effective for the radial shaft fracture. Five months later, the ulnar nonunion and bone gap were treated with distraction osteogenesis with the use of an external fixator. Enhancements with two more surgical interventions with corticocancellous bone grafting were done with 4 months interval. The external fixation remained for 3 weeks after the last procedure, until clinical and radiological signs of union. The patient experienced a period of 4 years free of symptoms with no significant functional impairment. However, eventually she gradually established pain, swelling and severe deformity of her left forearm with magnetic resonance imaging and Ga 67 bone scan raising suspicion for infection. She was admitted for surgical debridement, hardware removal, and intravenous and then oral antibiotic treatment (ciprofloxacin and rifampicin) while intraoperative culture samples were negative. The patient’s medical and family history is clear, while she