A 23-year-old man presented to an emergency psychiatry setting with the complaints of difficulty in lowering his gaze, up-rolling of eyeballs, and difficulty in jaw opening for the last 2 h. On examination, the patient was conscious, cooperative, and oriented. He had difficulty in opening his mouth and lowering his gaze. He appeared to have an acute dystonic reaction presenting with trismus and oculogyric crisis. Other aspects of his general examination were unremarkable. His systemic examination, which included an exhaustive neurological examination, was normal. All baseline investigations, including complete blood counts, serum electrolytes, liver and renal function tests, and random blood glucose, were within normal limits. His resting electrocardiogram was also normal. There was no past history of similar complaints or of any transient ischemic attack, and he had neither a family history of dystonia nor a history of alcohol ingestion, cigarette smoking, or use of illicit drugs or history of taking psychotropic medications.
On enquiry, the patient yielded that he had fever for the past 3–4 days, for which he was taking some medications from a physician. All his blood parameters were normal, and he had tested negative for dengue and malaria. However, as it is a common practice in India to empirically start a patient on antibiotics, he had been started on chloroquine (500 mg once daily dosing) and doxycycline (100 mg twice a day). It was after his third dose that he had developed an acute dystonic reaction. Immediately, an injection of promethazine 50 mg was administered intramuscularly. After 15 min, there was some relief in his symptoms. Later on, after giving an injection of intravenous diazepam 5 mg, the patient's symptoms improved considerably. He was kept was observation for 2–3 h and later discharged on oral diazepam 5 mg once daily for 3 days. He was asked to discontinue the antibiotics, and on follow-up, the patient had no further complaints and reported 100% improvement.