A 63-year-old woman presented to the emergency room with lower abdominal pain associated with nausea and vomiting for 3 days. She described the pain as dull, involving the right lower quadrant, non-radiating and constant. She also reported multiple episodes of non-bloody and nonbilious vomiting. Her prior medical problems included osteoarthritis requiring right-sided total knee replacement 5 years prior to this episode. She had been taking ibuprofen 400 mg for knee pain on as needed basis for the past 8 years. She had no family history of inflammatory bowel disease, colon cancer or any other GI-related disorder. She denied smoking, using alcohol and she reported no illicit drug use. She did not have any known drug allergies.
On initial examination in the emergency department, she was afebrile, hemodynamically stable and was not in any distress. Physical examination, including the abdominal examination, was unremarkable. Her laboratory investigations did not reveal any leukocytosis, but CRP was elevated to 55 mg/L. Computed tomography (CT) of the abdomen with intravenous contrast (Fig. ) showed focal mucosal thickening in the cecum which was highly suspicious for colonic malignancy. Subsequently, the patient underwent a colonoscopy which showed a frond-like/villous, infiltrative, ulcerated, large partially obstructing mass in the ascending colon in close proximity to the cecum (about 4 cm from the cecum) (Fig. ) and a large, ulcerated mass in the cecum. Biopsy samples were taken from both masses and pathology showed fragments of colonic mucosa with focal minimal hyperplastic changes, ulceration, mild acute and chronic inflammation and no malignancy. She was evaluated by both surgery and oncology and gastroenterology recommended to repeat colonoscopy with biopsy, but she refused and proceeded with right hemicolectomy, due to a suspicion of colonic malignancy in view of a colonic mass. Examination of the specimen after surgery showed an ascending colon mass measuring 3.2 × 2.5 cm and a cecum