We report the case of a 38-year-old white female accountant that was first diagnosed with node-positive TNBC at the age of 31 years after she had discovered a lump in her right breast. Her mother experienced breast cancer disease at the age of 50 years, but genetic testing of the patient discovered no BRCA1/BRCA2 mutation. The patient was a healthy non-smoker with only social alcohol and moderate meat intake before diagnosis.
She underwent neoadjuvant chemotherapy with carboplatin, paclitaxel, and liposomal doxorubicin followed by mastectomy of the right breast with reconstruction and axillary lymphonodectomy. However, a histologic examination showed no pathological complete remission and we started an adjuvant chemotherapy with cyclophosphamide, methotrexate, and 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) once the adjuvant radiation therapy of the right chest wall and the lymphatic drainage pathways (25 × 1.8 = 45 Gy) was completed. Methotrexate was stopped only after 1 month because of strong side effects (nausea, emesis) and we continued therapy with oral cyclophosphamide and oral 5-FU (capecitabine) for 3 months. However, 2 years after surgery, x-ray of the chest revealed an unclear lesion in the right lung. Beside this lesion (16 mm), a positron emission tomography-computed tomography (CT) scan showed another small suspicious lesion in the lingula and unclear activity in the inguinal lymph nodes on the left side. Biopsy of the lesion in the right lung confirmed a metastasis of the known TNBC. We initiated first-line palliative chemotherapy with weekly carboplatin and paclitaxel, resulting in a partial remission in the CT scan after 3 months. The residual lung metastasis in the right lung was treated with irreversible electroporation. However, only 7 months later a local recurrence in the right breast was diagnosed and surgically resected. Palliative chemotherapy was restarted with weekly paclitaxel and carboplatin for another 3 months, but unfortunately a CT scan revealed progression of the lung metastasis in the right lung. A second-line chemotherapy was