A 42-year-old female presented to the ED with left-sided back pain upon waking up in the morning. She reported that the pain was located in the left posterior lower ribs, about the inferior portion of the left scapula. The patient denied associated fevers, trauma, or rashes. She stated that her pain was worse with movement and taking a deep breath, and when reaching her left arm across the right side of the body. She denied any associated numbness or weakness. Her past medical history was notable for hypertension, but she could not recall the name of her anti-hypertensive medication. She had no allergies and had no other significant past medical or social history, although she did smoke e-cigarettes.
On examination, her vital signs were within normal limits. There was no hypoxia, tachypnea, or tachycardia. Pertinent physical exam findings revealed that the patient was experiencing moderate distress secondary to pain. She had a normal cardiac and pulmonary auscultation, and her skin was normal. Neurologically, her strength and sensation were intact in the upper and lower extremities. On musculoskeletal examination, the provider noted pain with forced adduction of the left arm across the body, and back exam was notable for tenderness in the left paravertebral muscles of the thoracic spine. The provider initially reported concern for pulmonary embolism, which was excluded with the Pulmonary Embolism Rule-out Criteria, as well as concern for pneumothorax and occult rib injury. A chest radiograph with dedicated left-sided rib views revealed no acute abnormality.
Given that the patient’s pain appeared to be myofascial in origin, a physical therapy consultation was obtained. The physical therapist was specifically trained in myofascial manipulation and trigger point release. The patient was diagnosed by the physical therapist with muscular spasm of the left quadratus lumborum muscle, and was treated with manual trigger point therapy, which completely released the spasm in the muscle. Upon re-assessment by