A 40-year-old female was admitted to the urology department on October 28, 2020 with symptoms of left-sided renal colic. In the interview, the patient denied suffering from chronic diseases or having undergone any surgeries in the past. She also denied smoking and drinking alcohol. The patient initially consented for ureteroscopy (URS) treatment of the left kidney and a DJ catheter was inserted. No complications occurred. However, due to persistent discomfort, a computed tomography (CT) scan of the abdominal cavity was ordered. The CT examination revealed a heterogeneous, poorly demarcated lesion with a clear fat component within the left kidney, with a maximum size of about 97 mm (). The image of the lesion enforced the diagnosis of angiomyolipoma (AML) with secondary haemorrhagic changes. The lesion pressed against and narrowed the lower half of the left kidney, causing thickening of the renal fascia to approximately 13 mm. The patient underwent surgery on November 3, 2020. Left radical nephrectomy was performed. Pathology report confirmed AML. Further hospital stay was uneventful.
A 45-year-old female was admitted to the urology department on December 22, 2019 due to a massive 13 cm tumour of the right kidney with bleeding into the retroperitoneal space. The patient reported pain in the right lumbar region, which she rated as 5 on a 10–point visual analogue scale. A 5 cm AML of the right kidney was diagnosed in 2012, but the patient refused surgical treatment and did not attend any follow-up appointment. The patient denied smoking and drinking alcohol. The patient on admission was hemodynamically stable and she underwent right radical nephrectomy on December 24, 2019. Histopathological examination supported the diagnosis of angiomyolipoma. The patient was discharged in good general condition.
A 23-year-old female was admitted to the urology department on December 17, 2020 due to bleeding into the retroperitoneal space. In the medical history, obesity and insulin resistance was noted. The