A 56-year-old woman with a history of breast cancer was referred to the Department of Investigational Cancer Therapeutics in January 2015. She had no pertinent medical history and was in good health until early 2005, when she felt a mass in her left breast. She was a non-smoker and had a family history of breast cancer and prostate cancer. Physical examination demonstrated a 3 × 3 cm mass in the 10 to 11-o’clock position in the superior aspect of the left breast and a 2 cm lymph node in the left axilla. Ultrasound-guided core needle biopsy performed in February 2005 demonstrated an estrogen receptor- and progesterone receptor-positive, human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER-2/neu)-negative invasive mammary carcinoma of the left breast [modified Black’s nuclear grade 1 (well differentiated)], carcinoma in situ, low grade, solid type, without necrosis). CT scans indicated no evidence of metastasis; however, fine-needle aspiration of the left axilla lymph nodes demonstrated metastatic carcinoma consistent with the primary breast tumor.
In March 2005, the patient was enrolled on a clinical trial that included weekly paclitaxel chemotherapy for 12 cycles followed by six cycles of 5-fluorouracil, epirubicin, and cyclophosphamide. Four months later, imaging studies indicated a reduction in tumor size. In September 2005, she underwent a left skin-sparing total mastectomy with axillary lymph node dissection followed by delayed reconstruction using a submuscular tissue expander. Then, from October to December 2005, she underwent post-operative adjuvant radiation therapy (50 Gy in 25 fractions to the left central chest and left lateral chest wall with an additional 10 Gy boost to the tumor bed). She also intermittently received Tamoxifen between 2005 and 2008. In December 2006, imagining studies demonstrated bone metastasis and the patient was treated with radiation therapy and anastrozole plus fulvestrant from December 2006 to March 2014. The bone disease stabilized, but she had disease progression in her lungs and lymph