A 55-year-old male patient, known to have a 3-cm hydatid cyst disease of the right lobe of the liver for 3 years was admitted to the emergency department of other peripheral hospital complaining of severe upper abdominal pain of 4-h duration. The pain had lasted for 4 h, started abruptly, and was described as diffuse and sharp. He also suffered from nausea, recurrent vomiting, and general weakness. The patient denied any trauma to the chest or abdomen. In addition, the patient’s background included a history of tobacco smoking, hypertriglyceridemia, and hypercholesterolemia.
On physical examination upon his admission, the patient’s vital signs were abnormal, with tachycardia of 125 beats/min and blood pressure of 100/60 mm Hg. An abdominal examination revealed upper abdominal diffuse tenderness with guarding. No abdominal mass was palpated. Digital rectal examination was normal. A complete blood count showed increased white blood cells of 18,000 × 109/L, with 16% band neutrophils. Liver and kidney function tests were within normal limits. A computed tomography (CT) scan of the abdomen and pelvis revealed a 5-cm hypodense cystic mass in segment 6 of the liver and an additional 10-cm polycystic mass in the mesentery of the small intestine with moderate amount of free fluid in the abdomen and pelvis (). The patient was diagnosed with spontaneous intraperitoneal rupture of hepatic hydatid cyst with dissemination into the small-bowel mesentery, and he was transferred to our facility and admitted to the intensive care unit (ICU). Due to unavailability of operating room, conservative management by nil per os (NPO), rigorous intravenous fluids, noradrenaline and anthelminthic treatment by albendazole was initiated until an operating theater become available for surgical management. Few hours following his admission, the patient’s hemodynamic status improved significantly, and he was weaned from noradrenaline support, thus, emergency surgery was cancelled. Four days later, the patient was discharged home in stable condition after