An 80-year-old gentleman with recently diagnosed metastatic bladder cancer to bones and retroperitoneal lymph nodes was started on pembrolizumab. Patient was not considered for cisplatin-based therapy given decreased performance status and chronic renal impairment. Patient did have a history of lupus treated with mycophenolate and hydroxychloroquine. Given his clinical condition and comorbidities, his oncologist considered pembrolizumab is a better option for the patient as his lupus is well controlled. He presented to the emergency room with worsening weakness and inability to walk after receiving his first cycle of pembrolizumab. He has been deconditioned over the past few weeks but was able to walk with a walker and perform daily activities at baseline. However, he was unable to get up from the bed and was extremely weak in bilateral lower extremities after receiving immunotherapy and hence sought medical attention.
He reported extensive past medical and surgical history that includes hypertension, hyperlipidemia, hypothyroidism, lupus, peripheral arterial disease status post stent placement in right mid popliteal artery, coronary artery disease status post percutaneous intervention, tachy brady syndrome status post pacemaker placement, congestive heart failure with ejection fraction of 40%, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, squamous cell carcinoma of supra-glottis status post radiation therapy in remission, chronic back pain, and benign prostatic hypertrophy.
He is a former smoker, quits smoking 10 years ago, drinks alcohol occasionally, and reports no illicit drug use. There is no significant family history. Medication list includes apixaban, clopidogrel, levothyroxine, mycophenolate, atorvastatin, hydroxychloroquine, tamsulosin, finasteride, and omeprazole. On initial examination, his vitals are stable. Physical examination was significant for the patient in distress from back pain radiating to bilateral lower extremities associated with weakness. Also noted chronic macular darkening of leg. Neurological examination was significant for weakness in the lower extremities with a strength of 3 out of 5 bilaterally. There was no sensory loss. The patient did have a