A 32-year-old female reported with complaints of pain and swelling in the maxillary anterior region for 3 years. There was no history of trauma and pus discharge with the swelling. Swelling was slow in growth and associated with pain. The patient had taken unknown medications for the same with no reduction in the size of the swelling. Personal history, family history and medical history was noncontributory, and history of tobacco habit was not present. Upon extraoral examination, the overlying skin was found to be normal in color with the smooth surface without any gross facial asymmetry. Intraoral examination revealed the swelling to be round to ovoid, firm to hard in consistency [], nontender, noncompressible and located on the labial gingival margin in the region of right maxillary central and lateral incisors. The overlying mucosa was normal in color. Intraoral periapical radiographs showed a well-defined pear-shaped radiolucent lesion in the interdental region of right maxillary central and lateral incisors, extending from the mid root level to the periapical region []. On the basis of clinical and radiographic features, differential diagnosis of radicular cyst, lateral periodontal cyst and benign odontogenic tumor such as adenomatoid odontogenic tumor (AOT) were postulated.
The patient was conventionally managed by surgical debridement of the lesion followed by regenerative therapy. The involved tooth was nonvital, and endodontic therapy was carried out. The lesional tissue specimen was sent for the histopathological examination.
Gross examination revealed multiple tissue fragments with the largest measuring 1.0 cm × 0.5 cm × 0.4 cm, being yellowish-white in color and soft in consistency []. Histopathologically, the sections exhibited stratified squamous surface epithelium at the one end of the section with the lesional tissue in the rest of the area. The lesional tissue was composed of nests, islands and anastomosing strands of varying size and shape consisting of bland cuboidal to squamoid epithelial cells interposed in a mature