A 45-year-old man, long time tobacco smoker, presented with two week history of marked thyroid pain and swelling. He also reported fever (up to 39 °C), weight loss and hoarseness. The patient’s GP initially diagnosed SAT based on the pain, fever and high ERS and started treatment with NSAID with initial pain relief. After a few days the severe pain relapsed despite treatment, and the patient was referred to hospital. In our Department his ESR was 93 mm/h and biochemical features of thyrotoxicosis were present, which may indeed strongly suggest SAT. In the neck, there was a hard, painful tumour, about 7 cm in size. The laboratory results obtained in our Department are presented in Table . US revealed slightly enlarged right thyroid lobe and significantly enlarged left lobe (65 × 57 × 101 mm) dominated by a heterogeneous tumour size of 55 × 50 × 72 mm, with numerous calcifications and a heterogeneous fluid space corresponding to abscess (Fig. ). Tumour vascularisation was reduced. Almost the entire left lobe showed a faded structure of the parenchyma, with no evidently visible capsule, with features of infiltration of the neck structures. FNAB confirmed the presence of abscess, and after introduction of antibiotic therapy, the concentration of free thyroxine (FT4) gradually normalized. In the remaining FNAB material only blood and numerous granulocytes and macrophages were described. Neck CT revealed large tumour of the thyroid, with visible compression and displacement of the trachea and infiltration of the surrounding structures (Fig. ). In chest CT, in both lungs, numerous milk-glass areas were present and the CT image corresponded to the diagnosis of lympangiosis carcinomatosa. The patient was referred to a surgery clinic, where only a small piece (20 mm) of the neck tumour was wedged to release the trachea; the complete surgery was impossible due to the extent of infiltration and hardness of the tumour. Histopathologically purulent necrosis was mostly observed, but