A 61-year-old female was admitted to our hospital suffering from 48 h of acute abdominal pain, characterized by epigastralgia without radiation and no response to spasmolytics or analgesics.
The patient had been suffering intermittent episodes of mild discomfort of the gastrointestinal tract such as bearable diffuse abdominal pain and feeling of flatulence that persisted for one year. The pain pattern was not related to defecation or eating, there was no nausea, vomiting, weight loss, melaena, change in bowel habit, urinary symptoms, or fever. She was managed conservatively as thought to be a functional gastrointestinal disorder.
She describes the pain as aggravating suddenly and sharp in nature. She presented to the emergency department after 48 h of the pain acutely worsened. The pain was in the epigastrium and across the anterior abdomen, was sharp and constant without radiation.
She had no antecedents of alcohol, tobacco, or drug abuse.
She had a medical history of arterial hypertension and trigeminal neuralgia and had no surgical history. In her family history, there were two cases of colorectal cancer (mother and sister) without other illnesses.
The patient experienced epigastric tenderness upon palpation, although she had no rebound tenderness, muscle tension, or a palpable mass. She had no other relevant findings.
Laboratory test results including complete blood count, liver function tests, serum amylase and lipase, biochemistry, were within normal ranges.
An abdominal computed tomography (CT) scan showed a solid mass of the tail of the pancreas that contacted the lesser curvature of the gastric body. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) showed a pancreatic head, uncinate process, neck, and body of normal morphology. A solid nodular mass 29 mm in diameter was confirmed in the pancreatic tail, hypointense in T1, heterogeneous with hyperintense areas in T2, with enhancement after the administration of i.v. contrast predominantly towards the latter phase. Severe atrophy of the tail of the pancreas and upstream