A 56-year-old female presented initially with complaints of intermittent dysphagia and a 15 lb. weight loss. The patient’s family history was significant for lung cancer in her mother while past medical history comprised primarily of hypertension, hyperlipidemia, and hypothyroidism. In addition, she also reported a 15-pack year smoking history and rare alcohol use. Her symptoms prompted an evaluation with an upper endoscopy that ultimately revealed an ulcerating mass in the distal esophagus. Biopsy of the lesion showed an adenocarcinoma, signet ring cell type which was poorly differentiated. The tumor was Her-2/neu negative by immunohistochemical staining and FISH. PET scan done at the time of initial evaluation showed intense metabolic uptake with an standardized uptake value (SUV) of 5.3 in the distal esophagus and GEJ with the CT scan showing a mass measuring 3.3 cm x 1.6 cm x 1.5 cm at the same site. There was no evidence of local or distant spread of tumor on this initial imaging and she was considered to be stage IIB, T3N0M0.
Treatment was initiated with neoadjuvant chemoradiation with a total of seven weeks of full dose radiation therapy and weekly radio sensitizing chemotherapy with carboplatin and paclitaxel. An esophagogastrectomy done shortly after unfortunately showed extensive residual poorly differential adenocarcinoma with three out of 14 nodes being positive and invasion of the tumor into the adventitia which resulted in her being pathologically restaged as III B, pT3 pN2. Given the minimal pathologic response to the preoperative chemoradiation, it was decided to start her on adjuvant FOLFOX. She completed 12 cycles of FOLFOX, and repeat CT imaging after showed no recurrence or progression.
For two years following the completion of adjuvant chemotherapy, she had an unremarkable course with periodic CT imaging findings consistently negative for recurrent or metastatic disease. At the two-year mark, however, she began to develop symptoms of dysphagia for which she underwent esophagography showing interval narrowing of intrathoracic stomach. End