A 22-year-old male, with a known case of temporal lobe epilepsy since childhood and mental retardation, was on sodium valproate and Levetiracetam for his epilepsy. He presented to the emergency room complaining of three episodes of generalized tonic clonic seizure within 15 minutes without returning to baseline consciousness between the seizures. The patient was sedated, intubated and admitted to the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) as a case of status epilepticus. Two days later, he developed a fever >38°c associated with increased tracheobronchial secretions. Relevant septic work-up was sent and it showed leukocyte count of 18.3 x 109/mL and culture of tracheobronchial secretions showed growth of Pseudomonas aeruginosa. A chest X-ray showed new infiltrates in right lower lobe consolidation () which could be sign of aspiration but risk of aspiration was low in this case because all measures to prevent aspiration were taken including a semi-recumbent position, surveillance of enteric feeding and use of promotility drugs. Diagnosis of VAP was made based on the development of pneumonia that occurred more than 48 hours after he was intubated and mechanically ventilated. He improved clinically so he was extubated. He stayed in ICU for 5 days and then was transferred back to a ward. He again became febrile and hypotensive on the second day of his stay on the ward. So, he was transferred back to ICU and antibiotics were modified to a combination of Piperacillin-Tazobactam and Vancomycin. He did not require mechanical ventilation this time and started to show improvement on second day of stay in ICU. He became afebrile and was transferred out of ICU to ward after four days’ stay in ICU. Upon transfer to a ward his vital signs were stable, he was afebrile and maintaining oxygen saturation on room air. He had returned back to his baseline condition prior to admission. After 5 days on the ward he gradually developed progressive bulbar weakness and ataxia. On examination, his vital signs were a