A 63-year-old male, 10-day post completion of anti-tuberculosis regimen for pulmonary tuberculosis, known smoker and alcoholic, presented with grade-5 dysphagia associated with food regurgitation, cough and weight loss. On general examination, he was ill looking, cachexic, dehydrated and pale, not jaundiced but no lower limb edema. His vitals were blood pressure of 139/71 mmHg, Temperature of 35.8°C, oxygen saturation of 95% on room air, respiratory rate of 18 cycles per minute and a pulse rate of 73 beats per minute. He had a scaphoid abdomen with tenderness on the right lumbar region. Fine crepitations were heard with reduced air entry on the right side of his chest. Full blood picture was done which was normal with a haemoglobin of 11.3 g/dl, other investigations including renal function tests and liver enzymes were normal. Chest X-ray done showed signs of metastasis (). CT-scan of the abdomen done at the referring hospital with both oral and intravenous contrast reported structures above the diaphragm showing dilated oesophagus measuring 41 × 38 mm due to distal retro-cardiac concentric oesophageal wall thickening amounting to 18 mm with luminal narrowing with possibility oesophageal fistula tract. The gastric cavity was normal without focal lesions. OGD revealed the oesophageal mucosa was hyperemic with a blocking mass at 29 cm from the upper incisors. The scope was able to pass beyond the lesion. The cardiac, fundus and body mucosa was atrophic. There were metaplastic changes at the antrum and pylorus. Multiple biopsies were taken. Histology results revealed oesophageal well differentiated invasive squamous cell carcinoma.
The patient was scheduled for GFT insertion. Under aseptic technique, with the patient in supine position, 24 Fr urinary catheter as an improvised GFT was inserted in Stamm manner, haemostasis achieved, abdomen closed in layers and dressed (). There was no ascites and mesenteric lymph nodes were not palpable. After the procedure the patient was discharged home