We present here a case of an 81-year-old female patient who was admitted to the hospital owing to progressive abdominal enlargement for more than 1 year, accompanied by secondary dyspnea for 1 week. Her clinical manifestations included intermittent postmenopausal bleeding, which occurred three times 6 months previously, lasting for 3 to 5 days each time, and abdominal pain. Moreover, severe dyspnea occurred only in the supine position without a pillow. However, her medical history did not show smoking or respiratory diseases, and only mild hypertension. A physical examination showed an enlarged uterus that was similar in size to that at term pregnancy, with an irregular surface and a substantial abdominal mass that originated from the pelvic cavity (). Additionally, her body mass index was 18.67 kg/m2 and score of World Health Organization Performance Status was 3.
A blood test and liver function tests showed mild anemia (102 g/L) and hypoalbuminemia (24 g/L) after admission. Tumor markers were in the normal reference range, including cancer antigen (CA) 199, carcinoembryonic antigen, alpha fetoprotein, CA153, and neuron-specific enolase, and only CA125 was slightly elevated to 55 U/L. Chest computed tomography showed that both lungs were slightly thickened without nodules with enlarged lymph nodes. Magnetic resonance imaging of the abdomen and pelvis suggested uterine leiomyosarcoma (). The patient was initially diagnosed with leiomyosarcoma stage I.
Under multidisciplinary cooperation and complete correction of hypoalbuminemia and anemia, the patient underwent exploratory laparotomy, total hysterectomy, and bilateral salpingooophorectomy and omentectomy. Intraoperatively, the peritoneum showed signs of further tumor spread. However, in a palpation examination of the liver and parietal peritoneum of the pelvis, no metastases were found. She recovered well postoperatively and was discharged home on day 8. Further chemotherapy or pelvic radiation was recommended, but not accepted. Follow-up physical examination and magnetic resonance imaging 4 months after surgery showed no abnormalities or signs of tumor recurrence.
Finally, the