A 71-year-old female was referred to our institution for severe functional MR. The patient had a prior history of non-ischemic cardiomyopathy with implantable defibrillator, paroxysmal atrial fibrillation, chronic renal insufficiency, Crohn’s disease and chronic lung disease secondary to current tobacco use. The patient had multiple hospitalizations for congestive heart failure exacerbations and prior cardiac catheterization showing no obstructive coronary artery disease. At an outside institution, the patient underwent MitraClip implantation for her symptomatic MR. Two clips were placed with mean gradient 1.4 mmHg, mild residual MR, and left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) of 30% on a post-procedure echocardiogram. Four months post-procedure, the patient had a follow-up echocardiogram notable for two well-seated clips and mild MR.
Subsequently, the patient was brought to our institution with progressive shortness of breath and altered mental status. She was noted to be hypotensive requiring intravenous fluid, vasopressors and was treated for pneumonia. During that hospitalization, the patient had an echocardiogram showing LVEF 30% and moderate–severe MR with a mitral clip visualized (). The patient was further evaluated with a dobutamine study that showed slight improvement in the LVEF and a hyperdynamic right ventricle. The patient recovered from this hospitalization, but her functional status continued to decline. She had an echocardiogram 3 months after her hospitalization, which showed worsening LVEF of 15–20% and severe MR likely secondary to worsening LV dilatation exacerbated by her acute illness (). Given the ongoing symptoms and worsening LV function, our multidisciplinary team recommended MV replacement in an effort to improve symptoms, reduce the incidence of hospitalizations and preserve the remaining LV function.
Eight months after MitraClip implantation, the patient underwent MV replacement via a minimally invasive right thoracotomy. The patient underwent cardiopulmonary bypass via the femoral vessels. Through a right thoracotomy, a left atriotomy was made. The previously placed mitral clips were associated with fibrotic changes and damage to the leaflets ( and ).