A 29-year-old woman was referred to the clinical program at the Center for East-West Medicine (CEWM) within University of California Los Angeles (UCLA) Health for evaluation and management of visual field defect (VFD) in both eyes but worse in the right eye. She had recently relocated to California and worked as a project manager in the entertainment industry. Her visual deficit began to impede her daily functioning, and she was not able to renew her driver license after failing the vision test at the California Department of Motor Vehicles in 2014.
Her ophthalmologic history started with visual distortions in the periphery of her right eye at age 15 in 2000. An ophthalmologist diagnosed optic neuritis, but she was not treated. There was a blind spot in the inferotemporal visual field of the right eye. In 2008, she underwent photorefractive keratectomy. In 2009, a significant decrease in central vision of the right eye with subsequent evaluation by several retinal specialists led to diagnoses of acute macular neuroretinopathy and central serous retinopathy. Magnetic resonance imaging of the neuraxis and lumbar puncture were unremarkable, and an infectious workup proved unrevealing. A neurologist treated her with corticosteroids without improvement in her vision. The visual distortion could not be improved with corrective lenses either. In October of 2009, a retinal specialist in New York City documented no evidence of retinal vascular occlusion. Choroidal thickness measurements in the normal range argued against central serous chorioretinopathy, and scans over the right optic nerve revealed debris consistent with vitreous cells indicative of an inflammatory or possibly infectious process. Based on the physical examination findings of outer retinal thinning, she was diagnosed with AZOOR-complex disorder with acute macular neuroretinopathy. Confirmatory diagnostic testing and ophthalmologic evaluation at Mount Sinai Hospital supported this diagnosis and concluded a prior misdiagnosis of optic neuritis. In 2011, peripheral VFD had arisen in the left eye. From 2009 to 2014, her visual