A 57-year-old man was admitted to the emergency room after being unconscious for a day. One day earlier, the patient was found unconscious by his family. He was able to answer questions inaccurately but was unable to move his limbs and had slurred speech. The patient walked unsteadily and had difficulty urinating and had no vomiting nearby. The patient did not have limb stiffness or convulsion. Consciousness gradually worsened, and he was taken to the emergency department of the local county hospital approximately 3 hours later. Urgent head CT indicated bilateral hypodense lesions in the thalamus. The local county hospital considered the patient to have carbon monoxide toxic encephalopathy and was given hyperbaric oxygen therapy, and the consciousness disorder gradually aggravated. To obtain further diagnosis and treatment, the patient was sent to the Department of Neurology of our hospital by emergency department 120. MRI examination was conducted immediately, which suggested bilateral thalamic acute infarction (). He had no specific diseases in the past. He had no bad habits, such as smoking or drinking, no history of drugs or vaccination, and no history of exposure to toxic substances. Physical examination showed that the patient’s consciousness was in a light coma. Neurological examination revealed that the patient could open his eyes after painful stimulation, the eyeballs stared upwards, and the eyeballs could be seen involuntarily rotating. The patient’s bilateral pupils were equally large and round, with a diameter of approximately 3 mm, light response was sensitive, no spontaneous nystagmus, tongue extension did not cooperate, active movement of the limbs was observed, unable to lift off the bed, normal muscle tension of the limbs, tendon reflex (++), and bilateral Babinski signs (-). The haematology test revealed the following: On an empty stomach, blood sugar was 8.51 mmol/L, glycated haemoglobin was 9.50%, and low-density lipoprotein was 3.50 mmol/L. Other haematology tests showed no abnormalities