A 58-year-old male patient reported with a complaint of growth on the left inner side of cheek for 6 months which was increasing in size with a history of difficulty in chewing and brushing. There was no history of any pain or tendency of bleeding accompanying the growth. The medical and dental history was nonsignificant and noncontributory. The patient did not give any history of trauma, tobacco chewing, or alcohol consumption.
On intraoral examination, a well-defined, solitary, sessile, round to oval, pinkish growth with distinct borders were noted on the left buccal mucosa in relation to mandibular left first and second molar. The growth was approximately 1.5 cm × 1 cm × 1.5 cm. (Anteroposterior × Mediolateral × Superoinferior). On palpation, the growth was non tender, soft in consistency, and with no tendency for bleeding []. Since the history and clinical appearance of the growth was not characteristic of a specific lesion, a provisional diagnosis of soft-tissue overgrowth was made, and the patient was advised for an excisional biopsy to reach a conclusive diagnosis. The differential diagnosis included fibroma and peripheral giant cell granuloma.
A white, nonscrapable, homogeneous patch was also noted on the left buccal mucosa posterior to the swelling extending to the buccal vestibule and gingiva in relation to the mandibular left first and second molar region. The patient was again questioned in detail for any adverse habit such as tobacco chewing in any form, but the patient denied any habits such as tobacco chewing or smoking. Based on the clinical appearance of the white patch, a provisional diagnosis of homogeneous leukoplakia on the left buccal mucosa was made. Frictional keratosis was considered as a differential diagnosis.
Preoperative hematological assessment revealed all parameters within the normal limits. After obtaining informed consent from the patient, excision of the growth was done under local anesthesia. Bleeding was controlled by applying pressure with gauze to excision site.