A 27 year-old African American female with a past medical history of pre-eclampsia during her first pregnancy, hypertension, bronchial asthma, and chronic kidney disease (CKD) due to membranous glomerulonephritis with proteinuria with no history of smoking or toxic habits, presented with a chief complaint of chest pain. She described it as severe, crushing and associated with diaphoresis. The pain did not improve with acetaminophen and asthma medications. The patient called EMS and was brought to the Emergency Department (ED). In the ED, physical examination revealed a young well developed female, anxious, in mild distress, due to chest pain. She was afebrile with a blood pressure of 129/81 and a heart rate of 69. Her electrocardiogram showed ST elevation in leads II, III, aVF (). Her troponin I was elevated to 0.14 ng/L [Normal <0.04 ng/L]. Bedside echocardiography revealed an estimated ejection fraction of 45% and regional wall motion abnormalities in a multivessel territory. She was started immediately on aspirin and clopidogrel; STEMI code was initiated. She was immediately taken to cardiac catheterization which revealed the congenital absence of her left main coronary artery, an anomalous origin of the LAD from the right coronary cusp immediately superior to origin of the RCA. The RCA continued to supply the LCX territory with focal moderate ectasia. She had severe single vessel disease within her RCA territory: 100% stenosis in the proximal third of right posterior descending artery (RPDA) and discrete 85 % stenosis in right posterolateral segment (RPLS) just after the RPDA. She was treated with 2 drug eluting stents which deployed successfully in both lesions (, ). Post cardiac catheterization transthoracic echocardiography revealed inferior and inferoseptal hypokinesis and ejection fraction estimated to be 40%. CT coronary angiography showed that the RCA originates from the right coronary cusp, LAD coronary artery from right coronary cusp just adjacent to the origin of the RCA with a prepulmonic course. The