A 26-year-old gentleman reported to the department of oral and maxillofacial surgery for the correction of dentofacial deformity. He was diagnosed with vertical maxillary excess and hypogenia. The patient had no history of drug, alcohol, or tobacco intake, and his blood values were within normal limits. As per the proposed treatment plan, the patient underwent Le Fort 1 osteotomy with superior maxillary repositioning [] accompanied by augmentation genioplasty [] under general anesthesia. The postoperative course was uneventful, and the patient was subsequently discharged on the 4th postoperative day.
The patient was apparently normal, with no signs of infection and other relative illness up to 5 weeks after the surgery. By the 6th postoperative week, the patient reported to the outpatient department with mild pain and swelling over the right anteromedial cheek region. Clinical examination was inconclusive with nonspecific symptoms, and he was prescribed with analgesics for symptomatic relief. After 2 weeks, the patient was brought to the emergency department following an episode of epistaxis during sleep and was primarily managed with anterior and posterior nasal packing. A contrast computed tomography was performed, which did not reveal any abnormalities. Hemogram and bleeding parameters were within the normal range. Accordingly, the patient was monitored round the clock and discharged subsequently in the absence of any events.
By the 11th postoperative week, the patient presented with another episode of epistaxis accompanied by severe fall in hemoglobin level to 5.5 mg/dL, alarming an emergency. He was transfused with two units of packed red blood cells and intravenous maintenance with crystalloids. Hereafter, an interventional radiologist joined the team, and the patient was shifted to the radiological suite. Transfemoral angiogram (digital subtraction angiography) of the right external carotid revealed PA of the PSAA [], which is a branch of the third division of IMA. Superselective transcatheter embolization of IMA with gelatin-foam implantation [] was done after 72 h. The patient was then transferred to the intensive care