In April 2019, a 57-year-old right-handed man was admitted to the Treviso Memory Clinic due to the presence of cognitive changes and forgetfulness over the past two years, as well as recurrent and never-happened-before car accidents which occurred from October to December 2018. These events induced the man, married and father of an adolescent, to close the express courier business company he owned with a friend, remaining unemployed for a month. After starting to work again as an employee for another haul company, his forgetfulness and difficulties in driving the van persisted, to the extent of forcing him to take a sick leave in January 2019.
No family history of neurodegenerative or psychiatric diseases was reported, while other non-neurological conditions of the patient included episodes of asthma during the first years of life and alopecia for the past 16 years. He also reported poor performance at school, making frequent spelling mistakes in writing compositions and showing little interest in school subjects. No sleep disturbances were reported. At the time of the first visit, he used to smoke about four cigarettes a day and reported no alcohol consumption. He was not under any pharmacological treatment.
The onset of neurological symptoms dated back to summer 2018, when the patient, aged 56, started exhibiting forgetfulness, repetition of the same questions, episodes of confusion, initial difficulties in performing complex tasks, and easy distraction.
In December 2018 the patient underwent a computerized tomography (CT) scan, reporting a slight enlargement of subarachnoid spaces of the vault ().
In January 2019 the patient underwent a neurological examination and was admitted to a Neurological Clinic of a Hospital near his home, where he performed a cerebral MRI, which showed enlarged subarachnoid spaces of the vault and minimal gliotic alterations within the right-hemisphere’s white matter ().
During the same hospital admission, he completed a neuropsychological evaluation highlighting frontal executive function deficits (Frontal Assessment Battery, FAB