A 72-year-old male presented to our centre with a 3-month history of slowly growing, painless right breast swelling associated with bloody nipple discharge. On clinical examination, there was a palpable firm right breast lump (2 × 2 cm) in the right retroareolar region with serous discharge from the nipple.
Ultrasound of the right breast showed the presence of a cystic mass with a solid component within the retroareolar region, measuring 1 × 1 × 1.8 cm, which was classified as BIRADS 4. Tissue biopsy of the breast mass demonstrated sheets of mildly pleomorphic tumour cells arranged in a solid papillary architecture with low mitotic activity. p63 immunohistochemistry stain showed positive expression of myoepithelial cells at the periphery of the lesion and absent expression along the papillary fronds. A diagnosis of intrapapillary ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS) was made. The tumour was also diffusely positive for oestrogen receptor (ER) and progesterone receptor (PR), but negative for human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2). These are demonstrated in Figure .
Upon further questioning, the patient denied any risk factors for breast cancer. He has no family history of malignancies or genetic disorders such as Klinefelter syndrome. Apart from hypertension, hyperlipidaemia, and previous cerebrovascular disease from which he completely recovered, he denies any other medical problems, including those which are related to liver disease, thyroid disease, and testicular disease. He is a non-smoker and not particularly overweight.
Subsequently, we proceeded with a computerised tomography (CT) scan for staging purposes. As shown in Figure , the scan revealed residual lesion in the right breast and unfortunately also an incidental finding of prostatic mass with bladder infiltration and local regional lymphadenopathy. The CT also showed lytic bony lesions at the L2 vertebrae body, pelvic bone, and left proximal femur. The bone scan shown in Figure confirmed these lesions as metastases. His PSA at diagnosis (iPSA