A 50-year-old Caucasian male with a medical history of gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD), hypertension, and chronic smoking presented to the emergency department with chest discomfort. His vitals on presentation were a temperature of 98.4 F, blood pressure (BP) of 159/89 mmHg, pulse rate of 72/minute, respiratory rate of 22/minute, and oxygen saturation of 95% on room air. He did not report any significant family history of coronary artery disease or cardiomyopathies. His blood troponin levels were within normal limits and he did not have any new changes on his ECG. He was admitted to the hospital and an echocardiogram was done which showed normal left ventricular function with trace valvular insufficiencies and mildly dilated aortic root (). Acute coronary syndrome (ACS) was ruled out and the patient was referred for an outpatient exercise stress echocardiogram, which showed no evidence of ischemia. There were no changes to his medication regimen during this encounter.
Six months later, he called emergency medical services (EMS) with episodes of stabbing chest pain associated with shortness of breath, lightheadedness, and dizziness. The patient was found to be in VF arrest en-route and was defibrillated by the EMS. On arrival, his mental status returned to baseline and the patient was conversant. His vital signs were within normal limits, and an ECG showed normal sinus rhythm but his blood work revealed elevated troponin levels that peaked at 11.74 ng/ml. An emergency cardiac catheterization was done which did not show any evidence of obstructive lesions, or focal or diffuse vascular spasms except for mild right coronary artery plaque. A computerized tomography (CT) angiogram of his chest did not show aortic aneurysm or dissection. He had frequent episodes of non–sustained ventricular tachycardia on telemetry as an inpatient (). A single chamber implantable cardiac defibrillator (ICD) was placed with settings at ventricular tachycardia (VT) monitor zone 160 and VFib zone 200 for secondary prevention of VF