A 30-year-old Caucasian woman was followed by a pneumologist due to an insidious dyspnea on exertion and even when resting. She had been a smoker for 18 years (30 pack-years) and had her first child at the age of 20 as a vaginal delivery. There was no history of any chronic medication intake or any prior drug or food allergies.
Her disease was monitored thoroughly and, initially, through a lung CT scan, several cysts were identified, suggesting bullous emphysema associated with fibrosis in the lower lobes. In the meantime, the patient developed polyuria and polydipsia (with the consumption of more than 5 liters of water per day), so, as her anti-diuretic hormone levels were low, LCH was considered a possible diagnosis, and intranasal desmopressin was administered with symptomatic improvement. A lung biopsy was performed without any complications, and LCH diagnosis was confirmed through the expression of CD1a and S100 protein.
As the patient had developed symptoms of a diabetes insipidus, a cranial magnetic resonance was performed that confirmed the existence of a lesion located in the posterior lobe of the pituitary gland. Finally, a positron emission tomography was performed, which revealed diffused liver and skeletal lesions besides the pulmonary and pituitary lesions. So, the patient was diagnosed with a disseminated LCH, and she was followed closely in the rare disease consultation and was started on cytarabine (5-day treatment every month for one year) with significant improvement in respiratory distress and dyspnea. Pulmonary function tests (PFT) were repeated yearly and showed a mixed pattern that remained stable during follow-up. Afterward, the patient manifested the will to have another child so, she was followed at the high-risk pregnancy consultation and became pregnant 14 months after the last treatment with cytarabine.
Her pregnancy progressed normally, without any complications or symptoms, and in terms of medication she was only taking iron and folic acid besides her usual dose of desmopressin (2 nasal sp