A 58-year-old male patient came to the Oral Medicine and Radiology Outpatient Department at Government Dental College, Raipur, with chief complaints of pain and swelling on the lower left side of the face and mobility of teeth in the lower jaw for more than 2 months. History revealed that the patient had got his left mandibular first molar extracted about 2 months back for treatment of a similar complaint. The patient was a habitual bidi smoker for more than 20 years.
On oral examination, the swelling was observed in relation to lower left first molar region mucosa with bone involvement and also in lower left anterior region gingivae [Figures and ]. An extraoral, irregular submental swelling was also noted due to palpable, mobile and firm sublingual and submental lymph nodes. On inspection, a proliferative mass with surface ulceration was present in the left mandibular first molar region as well as the lower left anterior labial sulcus.
An orthopantomogram X-ray image of the patient's jaws and his lesion's clinical picture were also provided to the Oral Pathology Department. Radiograph showed an irregular, radiolucent lesion extending from the lower left central incisor to the left first molar in the mandibular alveolar region extending as poorly defined radiolucency into the body of the mandible region [].
An incisional biopsy was sent to the Oral Pathology Department with a provisional diagnosis of osteomyelitis or carcinoma of the alveolus based on the clinical appearance of the lesion and habit history of the patient. However, since the histology did not show any feature to ascertain the provisional diagnosis, a repeat biopsy was requested with full depth of the lesional tissue.
The incisional biopsy was done again, this time with incisional tissue from both left anterior and left molar regions of the mandibular gingiva. The repeat biopsy tissue showed normal stratified squamous surface epithelium and normal, fibrocellular, juxtaepithelial connective tissue. However, deep connective tissue showed an exuberant presence of dark, large lymphocyte-