A 57-year-old woman presented to our hospital because of dry cough, intermittent chest wall and back pain for 3 weeks. She complained the pain gradually aggravated but did not influence the length of sleep bouts. Simultaneously, the level of daily physical activity was significantly decreased, with a 3kg unintentional weight loss over the past month. She denied tobacco and tuberculosis exposure history. Physical examination suggests obvious swollen bilateral supraclavicular lymph nodes.
A chest enhanced computed tomography (CT) scan revealed over 200 uniform size pulmonary nodules in an evenly dispersed pattern at bilateral lungs with a 38×45mm new creature at the dorsal segment of the lower lobe of the left lung (–), in addition to a small amount of left-sided pleural and pericardial effusion. Interestingly, the artificial intelligence (AI) system (The AI software supported by Yitu CT, YITU Healthcare Technology Co., Ltd., China. The AI system of deep learning-based quantification was performed using a novel established lung nodule net based on one automatic segmentation software. This module was developed as a combination of U-net and fully convolutional networks. Approaches for lung nodule segmentation involved the detection of a volume of interest (VOI) covering the nodule area and segmentation inside this VOI., These methods can be generally classified into machine-learning methods based on China big date, which covered more than 10 provinces and more than 50 hospitals), only identified 18 pulmonary nodules (), which are lower than 10% of the real data. Besides, all of these were judged as low-risk nodules. Another enhanced CT scans showed multiple liver and adrenal metastases, multiple bone metastases (including thoracic spine, sternum, ribs and left scapula), as well as apparent lymphadenopathy in the left hilar, bilateral mediastinal and retroperitoneal area. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) revealed multiple osteolytic bone destruction in thoracic vertebrae and a T7 vertebral body’s compression fracture. T-SPOT was negative while a significant elevation of the