A 53-year-old African American male smoker with a history of hypertension presents with sharp epigastric pain extending to the lower abdomen, lower extremity swelling, shooting pain down the right arm, and black stools. Initial laboratories showed normal prothrombin time, international normalized ratio, hemoglobin, and hematocrit. Chest X-ray shows right perihilar mass with right pleural effusion []. Amylase and lipase levels are slightly elevated. A nasal gastric tube is guaiac negative, whereas rectal examination is stool guaiac positive.
Bronchoscopy for right hilar adenopathy shows narrowed airway, external compression of the anterior right upper lung, and erythematous right middle lung. The right upper and middle lobe biopsies and bronchoalveolar lavage are negative for malignancy. Mediastinal biopsy of 2R station mass showed that the sclerotic tissue is possible for amyloid. The scattered lymphocytes show no evidence of clonality on CD20 and CD3 immunostaining. The CT scan showed thickening of the parietal pleura and mediastinal mass with cuffing of the pulmonary artery and main stem bronchus []. To categorize the type of amyloid, Congo red staining with and without permanganate was ordered. Abdominal fat and bone marrow specimens displayed Congo red negative for amyloid. Sclerotic tissue from the mediastinal mass was positive for Congo red with and without permanganate digestion, leading to the initial diagnosis of amyloidosis []. Resistance of amyloid to the use of permanganate digestion would indicate an origin from a hematopoietic malignancy and light chain excess. Flow cytometric evaluation of mediastinal mass reveals predominantly T-cells with few polyclonal B-cells and no aberrant immunophenotype. Positron emission tomography scan shows uptake in right supraclavicular, paratracheal, and hilar region. Further serum protein testing reveals moderately increased gamma fraction. Light chain assay showed elevated kappa and lambda light chains. Serum protein electrophoresis and urine protein show no monoclonal spike, though there is diffuse polyclonal gammopathy. Diagnosis of AL amyloidosis of mediastinal nodes is made.