A 64-year-old male suffered from recurrent episodes of dizziness and three syncope events. All three episodes were preceded by physical effort which involved the upper extremities. No chest pain, palpitations or cough spells prior to the occurrence of syncope were reported. His past medical history included diabetes mellitus, hyperlipidemia and active cigarette smoking, without a previous history ischemic heart disease, arrythmias, previous peripheral vascular interventions nor a diagnosis of chronic lung disease. Due to his complaints, he was initially seen by his family medical doctor, where low blood pressures were recorded (90/60 mm Hg). Following a third episode of syncope he was referred to the hospital and subsequently admitted to the department of cardiovascular medicine for further workup. Upon examination, a significant difference in blood pressures was noted between the upper limbs (130/70 mm Hg on the right brachial artery, 90/70 on the left brachial artery). Other vital signs were normal: heart rate of 72 bpm and O2 saturation of 98% in room air. A bruit was noted on auscultation over the left subclavian artery. No differences in pulse amplitude, strength, skin color or arm circumference were noted upon examination of the upper limbs, and carotid sinus massage and test for orthostatic hypotension were both negative. Provocative arm maneuvers resulted in dizziness, but not syncope. Electrocardiographic recording demonstrated a normal sinus rhythm, normal axis, normal PR interval, without ischemic changes in the ST-T segments; lab exams at admission demonstrated Troponin-T measurements of 15.5 and 13.4 ng/L, hemoglobin and glucose measurements were within normal range.
Taking these unique physical examination features into account, subclavian steal syndrome was suspected as the cause for the patient’s complaints, and a computerized tomography angiography (CTA) was carried to further explore this option. Indeed, CTA scan demonstrated an obstruction and retrograde filling of the right common carotid artery and obstruction of the right brachiocephalic trunk (). To prove