A 45-year-old male presented to the emergency room (ER) with cough, dyspnea, fever, and fatigue. He had no known medical history besides occasional non-intravenous drug use and smoking. Physical examination was positive for right-upper quadrant pain and dyspnea but was otherwise non-contributory. A series of blood tests and imaging were undertaken.
Chest X-ray showed hilar lymphadenopathy and diffuse reticulonodular opacities whereas a thoracic CT scan revealed carcinomatosis lymphangitis, pleural carcinosis and multiple heterogenous zones on the cardiac wall. A transthoracic echocardiogram showed a left ventricular mass that was suspicious for metastasis. PET/CT described metabolically active lesions in the left ventricular septum and the right ventricular cavitary. A cardiac MRI further characterized a solid 12 × 12 mm mass on the left ventricular septal wall and a solid 11 × 15 mm endovascular mass at the right ventricular apex (). These lesions were highly suggestive of metastasis due to the degree of contrast enhancement that was similar to other metastatic sites. There was no valvular or vena cava involvement. The left ventricular ejection fraction and pulmonary artery pressures were both normal. Subsequent imaging showed abundant distal metastases with hepatic, cerebral, adrenal, cutaneous, subcutaneous, muscular, and bone involvement. A right renal trocar biopsy was performed with histological morphology and immunohistochemistry compatible with RCC. Nuclear grading was a minimum of 3/4 making it a high grade stage IV metastatic RCC (mRCC).
The patient’s fever was attributed to a paraneoplastic phenomenon; a septic source was never been found. His right upper quadrant pain was attributed to hepatic capsule distention by the metastases. Blood tests revealed an inflammatory anemia (hemoglobin (Hb) 74 g/L), a reactive thrombocytosis triggered by his neoplasia, and hypercalcemia secondary to his bone metastases.
A bone marrow infiltration was not excluded but no bone marrow biopsy was performed during his stay. A genetics consult did not reveal any gene mutations predisposing to renal cancer.
With little evidence in the