A 39-year-old male patient who was a non-smoker with no comorbidities arrived at our hospital in August 2019 and presented with dry cough for 6 months and a weight loss of 5 kg per month. The patient had no previous chest pain or dyspnoea. A physical examination was also performed. Computed tomography (CT) of the thorax revealed many bilateral lung lesions of approximately 4–9 mm with enlargement of the mediastinum, hilar and supravicular, and abdominal lymph nodes with the largest size of 28 × 31 mm. The brain MRI showed that the lesion in the frontal region located in the top left and right frontal lobe had the largest diameter of approximately 24 mm, causing oedema. Moreover, bone scintigraphy showed numerous bone metastases in the spine and bilateral pelvis. A CT-guided fine-needle biopsy of the lung tumour was also performed, and the histological identification illustrated lung invasive adenocarcinoma with both TTF1 and napsin A. The patient was diagnosed with stage IVC lung adenocarcinoma (brain, bone, and abdominal lymph nodes). Tissue samples were tested for next-generation sequencing. According to the results, the patient had both types of EGFR exon 19 deletion mutation mixed rearrangement ALK (ALK-EML4 fusion). In September 2019, we decided to use a second-generation ALK inhibitor, ceritinib (alectinib is not available in Vietnam), instead of EGFR-TKIs for the initial treatment of the patient. The patient's brain lesions were also closely monitored.
Within 3 months of treatment, the patient's clinical symptoms markedly improved. The patient did not experience cough or chest pain. The CT scan indicated that lesions of the bilateral lungs, as well as the mediastinal and abdominal lymph nodes were greatly reduced and exhibited partial response (Fig. ).
Nevertheless, brain MRI showed that metastatic tumours responded poorly to treatment. Thus, the patient underwent stereotactic radiosurgery with one fraction at a dose of 18 Gy on the brain lesion for local control, whilst continuing with ceritinib