A 45-year-old male patient presented to the OPD with complaints of pain in the left hip and difficulty in walking for 4 years. The patient had a history of fever and swelling over the left hip in childhood with no treatment taken for the same. The patient had no history of tuberculosis, weight loss, anorexia, morning stiffness, other joints involvement, or any history of drug abuse. The patient was not a known case of asthma, diabetes, and hypertension. The patient had no history of chronic alcohol consumption or tobacco smoking. Local examination revealed tenderness in the Scarpa’s triangle and over the greater trochanter. The movements at the hip were restricted in all planes with the presence of 1 cm of true shortening of the limb as compared to the opposite side with adduction deformity.
The patient was investigated radiographically with X-ray () of the pelvis with both hips which was suggestive of osteoarthritis of the left hip with narrow femoral canal (Grade I Dorr), collapse of femoral head, narrow and broad neck of femur, and arthritic changes in acetabulum.
The patient was initially managed with traction to cause relaxation of the contracted soft tissues. The patient was also started with physiotherapy to increase the strength in the affected muscles around the hip. As the patient’s X-ray showed hip with narrow femoral canal (champagne flute canal) (), templating for the hip was done and surgery was planned as total hip arthroplasty using a Wagner cone stem for the femoral component. After obtaining fitness for surgery with ESR and CRP in normal range, the patient was operated in lateral position through posterior approach. The soft-tissue dissection and the dislocation of femoral head posed difficulty due to presence of soft-tissue contracture and fibrous tissue surrounding the hip joint. After acetabulum preparation, femoral canal preparation was done using small rasps and broaches and completed with no complications.
Uncemented total hip arthroplasty was done using Zim