A 46-year-old female with a known history of hypothyroidism for 10 years presented in the outpatient department with dry cough for one week, fever for two days and breathlessness for 10 days which has worsened over the last two days. She had no history of power loss in any of her limbs. She had no history of smoking. She had no family history of any autoimmune disorders.
She visited a primary care physician one day earlier and was recommended arterial blood gas evaluation to detect the degree of respiratory impairment and possible etiologies. The arterial blood gas analysis report showed a pH of 7.3, pCO2 of 60 mmHg, pO2 of 52 mmHg and the patient was advised admission considering a high level of pCO2. On admission, blood samples were drawn for complete blood count, renal function test, liver function test, and thyroid stimulating hormone; all of which showed normal results. To rule out the pulmonary thromboembolism, a cardiothoracic pulmonary angiogram was performed which showed posterobasal consolidation in both lower lobes with a thin rim of pleural effusion bilaterally and a few enlarged homogeneously enhancing lymph nodes in the perivascular and right paratracheal regions.
On admission, the patient was also started on non-invasive positive pressure ventilation, bronchodilators, and broad-spectrum antibiotics against pneumonia. Despite these interventions, the patient showed no improvement for the next 24 hours. The subsequent arterial blood gas analysis showed a pH of 7.2 with pCO2 of 105 mmHg. Breath holding counts decreased from 12 to 6, thus developing hypercapnia. In addition, the patient started developing drowsiness for which a neurology consultation was ordered to rule out other neurologic causes of type 2 respiratory failure. To rule out myasthenia gravis, various serological tests were performed including acetylcholine receptor antibodies, IgA antibodies, electromyography with the results expected to arrive the next day.
Owing to the expected delay in the results, a bedside ice pack test was performed to diagnose myasthenia gravis. A positive response was elicited with the