A 65-year-old Caucasian male presented to the office with episodes of paresthesias in his right foot. His medical history included hypertension and 45 pack-years of smoking. He complained of paresthesias and pain in his right foot for the previous three weeks. The foot pain had reached the point at which he could no longer complete his daily occupation as a custodian. Physical exam revealed the lack of a palpable pulse on either the dorsalis pedis artery or the posterior tibial artery on the right side. Femoral pulses were 2+ on both the right and left sides. The initial ankle-brachial index (ABI) measurement in the office was approximately 0.3. Further angiography showed occlusion of the above-knee popliteal artery and subsequent reconstitution of flow into the below-knee popliteal artery, as well as multiple stenoses in the superficial femoral artery. Biphasic waveforms were present in the right common femoral artery, profundal artery, and superficial femoral artery proximally. The right mid-superficial femoral artery, posterior tibial artery, and dorsalis pedis waveforms were monophasic. At that time, he was started on Atorvastatin and scheduled for a right-sided femoral angiography with possible stenting. During the procedure, his right common iliac artery was found to have about 90% stenosis with both external and internal iliac artery patent, with no disease. The findings in the right leg during the procedure showed both the right deep femoral artery and superficial femoral artery patent. The distal right superficial femoral artery, however, showed 80% stenosis in multiple segments. Both the popliteal artery behind the knee and the anterior tibial artery at the level of the right ankle were completely occluded. His right iliac stenosis was treated with balloon-expandable stent placement, with the subsequent resolution of common iliac artery disease shown through angiography postop.
Two weeks after the procedure, he presented back to the office with no improvement in symptoms and newly developed ischemic rest pain and hyperalgesia