A 17-year-old man presented to the emergency department with increasing leg pain associated with swelling at the site of the pain. He had been experiencing pain of moderate intensity in the mid third of his left thigh for ~7 days. Symptoms gradually worsened over the last 2 days.
He was a factor V leiden carrier and had a history of cerebral venous thrombosis. He was being treated with therapeutic anticoagulation. He had no other comorbidities. He had no history of smoking had no history of trauma or surgery.
On physical examination, he was tachycardic (103 bpm) with a blood pressure of 130/70 mmHg. We demonstrated a large pulsatile mass of the left upper leg (). His pulses were palpable and there was no evidence of distal embolization.
Ultrasonography (US) of the left thigh showed an aneurysmal dilatation of the SFA measuring 67 × 50 × 80 mm () on the anterior aspect of the proximal third of the thigh. Computer tomography angiogram (CTA) confirmed a 64 × 80 × 87-mm PSA developed on the anterior side of the proximal left SFA (). The other arterial axes were healthy and normal. Supplementary imaging examinations did not identify any additional aneurysms.
After a multidisciplinary discussion, we decided to wait until the effect of anticoagulation ceased before operating on the patient.
During operative intervention, a hematoma was observed involving muscle tissues in the anteromedial region of the thigh. There were no obvious signs of active infection. The proximal control obtained, the aneurysm incised and the distal control obtained. The aneurysm resected and samples collected for anatomopathological and microbiological analyses (). Reconstruction was performed by interposition of the ipsilateral great saphenous vein in reverse, with end-to-end anastomosis taking into consideration the diameter of the femoral artery (). Intraoperative tissue cultures were negative and the anatomopathological analysis showed a histopathological aspect corresponding to a PSA of the femoral artery, with the absence of the arterial wall and without specific character.
At 2-month follow