A 52-year-old woman presented to the emergency department with 3 days of diffuse abdominal pain that started during a dance class. The pain had a sudden onset with radiation to her back and did not worsen with meals. She had mild associated nausea and bloating but no other symptoms including emesis, hematochezia, melena or diarrhea. Her medical history was notable for former smoking history (10 pack-years, quit 5 weeks prior to presentation), but she was otherwise healthy and was taking no medications. Her surgical history consisted of laparoscopic appendectomy and diagnostic laparoscopy for endometriosis, both of which occurred more than a decade prior to presentation. She was hemodynamically stable with systolic blood pressure ranging from 100 to 120 s mmHg, and her exam was notable for mild diffuse abdominal tenderness without evidence of peritonitis. Her complete blood count and basic metabolic panel were within normal limits, and a venous blood gas demonstrated no evidence of lactic acidosis. A computed tomography (CT) angiogram of the abdomen and pelvis demonstrated a 5–6 cm length proximal SMA dissection with high-grade stenosis of the true lumen as well as a short-segment right external iliac artery dissection with mild narrowing of the true lumen (). There was no radiographic evidence of bowel ischemia.
She was admitted and maintained on bowel rest and heparin infusion. Given persistent pain after 2 days of non-operative management, an abdominal arteriogram was performed through a left axillary artery cutdown. The dissection was identified 1.5 cm distal to the origin of the SMA (). Intravascular ultrasound was used to determine diameters and landing zones for stent placement (). The dissection was initially treated with a 6 mm × 40 mm self-expanding stent followed by post-dilation with 4 mm × 40 mm and 6 mm × 40 mm balloons. A 5 mm × 19 mm stent graft was deployed proximally with small overlap and ~3-mm extension into the aorta. Completion angiogram showed <10% residual stenosis (