A 70-year-old man was admitted to our hospital for a scheduled invasive coronary angiography due to mild exertional dyspnea followed by an equivocal treadmill stress test. His past medical history was notable for arterial hypertension, mild dyslipidemia, and smoking. He denied any family history of sudden deaths.
The patient was transferred to the cardiac catheterization laboratory asymptomatic. His resting ECG showed a slight J point elevation of 1 mm in inferior leads (II, III, aVF) (Figure ). The transradial coronary angiography was performed with Judkins left and Judkins right diagnostic catheters of 6F. The radiocontrast used was iopromide, a non-ionic iodine-based contrast agent of low osmolarity. During the procedure, the patient manifested ventricular fibrillation immediately after the intracoronary injections in both coronary arteries that required electrical cardioversion. Each arrhythmic episode was preceded by a further elevation of the J point in the inferior leads (II, III, aVF) during right coronary artery angiography (Figure ) and by J point elevation in lateral leads (I, aVL) during left main artery angiography (Figure ). Of note, a premature ventricular ectopic beat of the same morphology preceded both ventricular fibrillation episodes. Angiography was then completed by additional non-selective infusions from the aortic root (Figure ,F). Coronary angiography did not reveal any sign of obstructive disease. Mechanical complications of the procedure such as stimulation of the myocardium by catheter manipulation, catheter occlusion, deep intubation into the coronaries or superselective engagement were immediately excluded by the operator. The timing as well as the mode of the initiation of the arrhythmia leaded us to the diagnosis of contrast media-induced ventricular fibrillation.
Even if the non-spontaneous manifestation of the arrhythmia prohibited the diagnosis of an early repolarization syndrome, the pattern in the resting ECG of the patient raised our suspicion of an underlying substrate that could increase his vulnerability to malignant arrhythmogenesis. The hospitalization of the patient