A 57-year-old male was admitted to the Pulmonary Oncology Department of University Hospital Centre Zagreb in November 2017 with cough and hemoptysis. He smoked 27 packs/year, had an alcohol abuse history, and displayed no evidence of present or past soft tissue neoplasms or history of radiation exposure. His Karnofsky performance score was 80. Subsequent physical examination revealed reduced air entry in the left lung. His complete blood count and biochemical parameters were within the normal range. Initial chest x-ray showed an extensive consolidation in the left lung suggesting possible malignancy; CT of chest and abdomen was recommended. The CT scan showed an extensive partially necrotic tumor in the left upper lobe (LUL) extending from the left hilum with infiltration of the LUL bronchus to the visceral pleura, measuring 74 mm in the largest diameter (Fig. ).
There was no evidence of nodal or visceral dissemination at presentation. Bronchoscopy examination with biopsy was performed, and specimen from the LUL bronchus was taken. Histopathological analysis showed an almost completely necrotic tumor with a share of less than 10% viable pleomorphic tumor cells expressing vimentin and CD99 and focal positive desmin. There was no expression of AE1/AE3, p40, TTF-1, napsin A, epithelial membrane antigen (EMA), CK7, and S100. The most likely diagnosis was poorly differentiated sarcoma.
For final staging, PET/CT scan was performed, showing no extra thoracic spread of the disease. The multidisciplinary tumor board deemed that lung surgery was the best treatment alternative, and several weeks later, left pneumonectomy with mediastinal lymph node dissection was done. Final pathohistological analysis noted a tumor size of 100 × 85 × 71 mm, more than 80% of which was necrotic. The pleomorphic tumor cells showed the same immunohistochemical profile as in biopsy specimen. Synovial sarcoma-associated translocation was negative. All surgical margins and dissected mediastinal lymph nodes were tumor free. Based on this, the final diagnosis