A 43-year-old man with a history of melena and significant anemia presented to the Gastroenterology Department of our hospital for outpatient esophagogastroduodenoscopy (EGD).
The patient noticed melanotic stools about 2 weeks before presentation, and around the same time, he started experiencing dizziness, generalized weakness, and intermittent epigastric pain. He denied any weight loss, loss of appetite, or night sweats. The patient was a former smoker and had quit smoking cigars almost 2 years ago. He was a social drinker and denied illicit drug use. Family history was significant for colon cancer in his maternal uncle.
EGD performed by the gastroenterologist showed a large submucosal mass with central ulceration located in the proximal gastric body. A biopsy of the gastric tissue was obtained. The patient developed acute GI bleeding after the biopsy was taken. Endoscopic hemostasis was successfully achieved with epinephrine injections; however, the patient had to be transfused with multiple units of packed red blood cells due to significant blood loss and anemia. He was then admitted to the medical intensive care unit (MICU) for close monitoring.
Computed tomography (CT) scan of the abdomen and pelvis with intravenous (IV) and per os (PO) contrast revealed a 19 × 16 × 13 cm mass located in the left upper quadrant. The mass appeared to originate from the stomach’s greater curvature and was predominantly necrotic/cystic in nature, with enhancing thick internal septations. The gastric biopsy results showed moderate chronic active gastritis with lymphoid aggregation, and the biopsy specimen was found to be Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) positive. The patient was started on triple therapy and was taken to surgery for abdominal mass resection, partial gastrectomy, distal pancreatectomy, and splenectomy. The postoperative course was complicated by an esophageal leak requiring re-exploratory laparotomy and esophageal stent placement. The stent was removed 5 weeks later as the esophagogram showed no leak at that time.
The histopathology report of the left