A 65-year-old woman presented to the orthopaedic office on a wheelchair. The patient had suffered an O5 fracture 35 years ago which was treated conservatively, and produced a cauda equine syndrome. The symptoms of urinary incontinence, diminished sensation in both legs distally to the middle of both thighs and deep tendon reflexes were remaining. Furthermore, she presented with muscular weakness (2+/5) of both feet, and she used feet orthoses. The quadriceps strength was uneventful. The patient had no notable medical history concerning diabetes mellitus, syphilis, lacunar infarcts, rheumatologic disease and osteoarthritis, and she denied tobacco and alcohol use. She had suffered a right middle tibia fracture 5 years ago, which was treated with intramedullary nailing and fused uneventfully. After a period of 2 months she regained her prior walking ability and was able to walk using a walker. The last 2 years she gradually lost her walking ability due to gross instability of both knees.
The main complaints were progressively swollen knees with mild pain and increasingly instability with valgus deformity and crepitus for the last 2 years. Since then the patient was unable to weight bear due to gross instability, and she used a wheelchair. During her admission to the orthopaedic office both knees had similar clinical deterioration and radiological abnormalities. Gross abnormal mobility was present on clinical examination in both sagittal and coronal planes. Anterior and posterior drawer test were positive. Varus and valgus instability test were also positive.
The diagnosis of Charcot arthropathy was established using knee X-rays, which showed marked destructive changes, sclerosis, dislocation, and subchondral fractures of the knee joints (, ).
Due to the progressive inability to ambulate the patient decided to be treated with total knee arthroplasty (TKA). She underwent removal of the intramedullary nail first. Two months later she was operated on her right knee using cemented rotating hinged knee prosthesis, in order to accommodate bone loss and ligamentous insufficiency. On postoperative day 2, the patient could