A 70-year-old Asian male presented to the hospital with worsening dyspnea on exertion and severe fatigue. He also reported an “issue with his heart” and a murmur which had been present since childhood. The patient noted absence of chest pain, orthopnea, or palpitations. He had a past medical history consistent with essential hypertension and cataracts but denied any history of diabetes, dyslipidemia or smoking. Family history of cardiovascular-related disease was non-existent.
On examination, his vitals were stable. The patient weighed 45 kg with a body mass index (BMI) of 17.2 kg/m2. Cardiovascular exam was significant for a 4/6 systolic murmur with a palpable thrill best heard at the left lower sternal border and a right ventricular heave.
Transthoracic echocardiography was significant for a left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) of 65%, as well as moderate to severe mitral and tricuspid regurgitation (, ). Transesophageal echocardiography revealed a normal left ventricular size and systolic function with an LVEF of 55-65%. It also showed evidence of a septum within the right atrium diagnosed as CTD. The mitral valve had moderate to severe regurgitation and the tricuspid valve had severe regurgitation. There was an intra-atrial septal aneurysm with a small patent foramen ovale and a right-to-left shunt (, ).
Left heart catheterization was significant for a vertically rotated heart. He had several redundant large caliber vessels in the left circumflex and right coronary artery, in addition to a large caliber wrap-around left anterior descending coronary artery with no stenosis noted in these arteries, just luminal irregularities.
The patient was discharged to be followed up in the cardiology clinic for continued evaluation of his valvular disease and cor triatriatum. Together, they appeared to be the main contributors to his fatigue and shortness of breath. In contrast, his coronary arteries were large in caliber, with no disease that could be attributing to his symptoms. The