The patient was an 82-year-old female who is a nursing home resident presented to an outside hospital with a two-week history of jaundice that had progressively worsened. She was brought to the emergency department and found to have hyperbilirubinemia with a total bilirubin of 10.7 and a direct bilirubin of 8.7. She was afebrile, and white blood cell count was 8.9. A CT scan of her abdomen and a MRCP were diagnostic for Mirizzi syndrome, revealing large stones compressing the common bile duct (CBD) with proximal dilation. She was transferred to our hospital for a higher level of care with hepato-pancreatico-biliary surgeons. Of note, her past medical history was significant for morbid obesity with a BMI of 42, dementia, diabetes mellitus, hypothyroidism, deep vein thrombosis (DVT), depression, anemia, tobacco use, and congestive heart failure (CHF). Her surgical history consisted of an appendectomy.
Upon arrival at our hospital, the patient underwent an endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) with the removal of small stones in the common bile duct, sphincterotomy, and two stent placements with ends terminating in the distal right and left hepatic ducts. However, despite this, there was still tapering in the common hepatic and common bile ducts noted from extrinsic compression from the large stones in the gallbladder and a significant filling defect through the cystic duct (). Additionally, the patient developed a fever and leukocytosis and persistently elevated bilirubin, with the most likely cause being an obstruction of the biliary stents causing persistent cholangitis and cholecystitis. The ERCP was repeated, and a third stent was placed. The patient's fever was controlled, and the bilirubin began to trend down.
Once the patient was stabilized, she was taken to the operating room for a cholecystectomy. The procedure began laparoscopically, but dense adhesions in the right upper quadrant involving the liver, gall bladder, omentum, and transverse colon prevented the development of