A 62-year-old Caucasian woman presented to our institute with acute right hemiparesis, neglect, and aphasia (National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale score of 24). On examination, her blood pressure was 129/74 mmHg, pulse 84 beats per minute and regular, and temperature 36.8 °C. She had global right-sided weakness with a power grading of 1/5, with increased tone and brisk reflexes on the upper and lower limbs. Her plantar reflexes were downgoing. The examination of the left side of her body was unremarkable. It was not possible to assess for sensory, proprioceptive, and vibration changes, given her expressive and likely receptive dysphasia. She also had a pansystolic murmur audible in the mitral area, and her lungs were clear to auscultation. Her calves were soft and nontender bilaterally, and no peripheral edema was present. She was treated with intravenous alteplase and transferred to a tertiary center for endovascular clot retrieval (ECR) within 2 hours of her initial presentation. She was transferred back to our institute for ongoing care 3 days later. Once back under our care, we were able to confirm that she had no significant cardiovascular risk factors except for cigarette smoking of unknown pack-years and her age. She did not consume alcohol regularly. She had no similar or significant family, social, environmental, or employment history. She was receiving no regular medications prior to her stroke. We were also made aware that she was being investigated for a possible malignancy of undetermined source. The history was based on review of her medical records and collateral information provided by her family.
An immediate computed tomographic angiogram of her brain showed an occlusion of the proximal M1 segment of the left middle cerebral artery (MCA) (Fig. ). Her cerebral vasculature was otherwise normal. Investigations assessing for vascular risk factors and secondary causes of stroke returned normal results. This included screening for underlying autoimmune disease and coagulopathy. The results of liver