A 64-year-old woman, without prior cardiac history, was admitted to the hospital with worsening dyspnea on exertion, orthopnea, and swelling of the lower limbs. She had hypercholesterolemia and prediabetes and was an active smoker. Clinical examination showed signs of congestion. A transthoracic echocardiogram revealed a dilated left ventricle with severe left ventricular dysfunction, with a left ventricular ejection fraction of 25%. The diagnosis of congestive heart failure was made. Medical heart failure therapy was initiated.
To rule out underlying coronary artery disease, an invasive coronary angiography was planned. However, vascular access could not be obtained despite several attempts via different arterial access points, both radial and femoral. A computed tomography angiography (CTA) and a coronary computed tomography angiography (CCTA) were performed. The CTA showed extensive peripheral artery disease, with a total occlusion of the infrarenal aorta and both common iliac arteries (Leriche Syndrome), a total occlusion of both subclavian arteries, and a critical stenosis of the brachiocephalic artery (Figure ), explaining the inability to obtain access through conventional access sites. Furthermore, there was a severe stenosis of the left internal carotid artery, and a mild stenosis of the left common carotid artery. However, arterial access could be obtained proximally at the left carotid artery. The CCTA showed extensive coronary calcifications, with a severe stenosis in the LAD, a moderate stenosis in the right coronary artery (RCA) and a moderate stenosis in the left circumflex artery (LCx), and thus justified the need for coronary artery revascularization.
After multidisciplinary Heart Team discussion, involving the vascular surgeon, the decision was made to perform PCI of the LAD via the left carotid artery.
The configuration of the catheterization laboratory was adjusted to enable carotid access site preparation and PCI (Figure ). The procedure was performed under general anesthesia. First, the vascular surgeon made the skin incision along the anterior border of the sternocleidomastoid muscle. The subcutaneous tissue and platysma were incised. The