A 46-year-old Caucasian male patient was referred to the acute eye casualty department with a 10-day history of bilateral floaters and blurring of vision. Although ophthalmic history was unremarkable, previous medical history identified an acute episode of jaundice 6 months before presentation. Medical investigations at this point identified a raised alkaline phosphatase (>900), and magnetic resonance cholangiopancreatography confirmed a diagnosis of PSC. There was no history of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) and his autoantibodies and hepatitis screen were all noted to be normal. He had previously been of good health and was a keen amateur bodybuilder. However, due to family commitments, he had given up this hobby 9 months preceding his attendance. He was local to the area, with no history of travel abroad. He smoked 5 cigarettes a day, and there was no history of alcohol intake. He was not on any medication at the time of presentation. His mother suffered from inflammatory arthropathy and his sister from multiple sclerosis.
On examination, the unaided logarithm of the minimum angle of resolution (logMAR) visual acuity (VA) in the right eye (RE) was 0.38 and the left eye (LE) 0.30. He had a bilateral nongranulomatous uveitis, extensive posterior synechiae, and normal intraocular pressures. There was a limited fundal view with vitreous cells noted in each eye. This was indeed more marked and active in the RE with an associated hyperemic optic disc. The LE revealed occlusive retinal vasculitis of the superior retinal vasculature [Figures and ]. This subsequently progressed to involve the right retinal vasculature upon the patient's next clinic attendance 5 days later, however, due to significant anterior chamber inflammation, fundal photos were not possible for this eye. There was no macular involvement in either eye, as was confirmed by optical coherence tomography. Systemic examination revealed possible early clubbing but was otherwise unremarkable.
The patient was commenced on hourly