An otherwise healthy, non-smoker, obese (his BMI is 35), adult male patient in his late 20s sought medical assistance following agonizing simultaneous pain in both knees with weight bearing. His Visual Analog Score (VAS) pain was 2/10 at rest but increased to 10/10 with weight bearing, rendering him unable to walk. Pain onset was ten days before his first medical consultation, without any history of specific traumatic incident. Prior to pain presentation, the patient had just completed a ten-day training period in order to meet specific criteria to join the police academy. The training consisted of long walks and running sessions on hard tarmac. Before the training period, his lifestyle was rather sedentary. The patient provided a detailed account of his daily training sessions because he was using a specific application on his smart phone (). He had no previous knee injuries or locking-like symptomatology. The patient denies altering his daily diet habits before, during or after training.
On physical examination, no limb malalignment was present. His knees had no apparent effusion/swelling and there were no skin abnormalities. Temperature of both knees was normal. There was significant tenderness over the medial tibial condyle in a wide area including the medial joint line, the pes anserinus and the medial collateral ligament insertion, consistent with the reporting pain site in both knees. Both passive and active range of motion were full and unrestricted and elicited only mild discomfort. Special tests assessing cruciate ligament instability were within normal range. Valgus force test elicited pain, without gross instability. The McMurray test for medial meniscus was positive for both knees, although the examining physician felt that it was non-specific for the patient’s symptomatology. Anteroposterior and lateral plain radiographs of both knees were ordered and were reported back as normal (). Simple painkillers were prescribed and non-weight bearing ambulation with a wheelchair was strongly advised. An MRI was requested before his next outpatient appointment.