The patient, a 69-year-old male office worker, was incidentally found to have esophageal candidiasis at an annual medical checkup and referred to our hospital 3 years previously. He was an ex-smoker and had a history of moderate alcohol intake. He complained of neither dysphagia nor any other gastrointestinal symptoms. Radiological and endoscopic examinations demonstrated diffuse EIPD involving almost the entire length of the esophagus (Fig. ), esophageal candidiasis, mild GERD, and atrophic gastritis. The orifices of EIPD periodically repeated active opening and closing movements and excreted turbid mucinous material onto the mucosal surface. The esophageal lumen showed mild narrowing, especially in the upper and lower portions, most likely due to submucosal chronic inflammation and fibrosis. Administration of antifungal drugs and proton pump inhibitors was started, and antibiotics for eradication of Helicobacter pylori were also given.
Thereafter, the patient was followed by periodic endoscopic examinations at 3- or 6-month intervals, and candidiasis showed repeated relapses and remissions for about 2 years. When candidiasis relapsed, movements of the orifices of EIPD tended to be reduced, and some of the orifices were covered by white coatings that represented exudates produced by Candida infection. The esophageal mucosa showed diffuse and mild redness and edema. The patient remained almost asymptomatic throughout the clinical course.
On endoscopy performed 2 and a half years after the first visit, multiple, small, whitish, scaly flecks were noted on the mucosal surface (Fig. ). They were longitudinally aligned and mainly found along the orifices of EIPD from the middle to lower esophagus. A biopsy specimen taken from one of these flecks showed mild acanthosis, and epithelial cells of the superficial layers had several fine keratohyalin granules in the cytoplasm (Fig. ). No fungal pseudohyphae of Candida species were detected.
On endoscopy performed 6 months later, whereas candidiasis was almost cured, multiple, small, whitish flecks slightly increased in size (Fig.