The first patient was a 79-year-old man admitted to the Dermatology Department with a nodular lesion located on the tip of the nose which appeared 2 months before. Initially, the lesion presented as an erythematous papule which increased rapidly in size and transformed into a nodule with an ulceration on the surface. The patient was treated with systemic antibiotics without any improvement. He had numerous comorbidities such as severe chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, chronic kidney disease, type 2 diabetes, previous myocardial infarction and was a smoker (80 pack-years).
On examination there was a palpable, exophytic, erythematous lesion with a large telangiectasia and central ulceration located on the tip of the nose (). The diameter of the lesion was 5cm. Differential diagnoses included pyoderma gangrenosum, keratoacanthoma, skin cancer and granulomatosis with vasculitis. There were no abnormalities in the nasal and nasopharyngeal fiberoscopy, the ulcer swab was sterile, antinuclear antibodies (ANA) and antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibodies against proteinase 3 (PR3) and myeloperoxidase (MPO) were negative. The biopsy of the lesion was performed, and the histopathological findings revealed features of partially keratinizing squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) (
). Thoracic HRCT (High-Resolution Computed Tomography) revealed an infiltrative lesion of the upper part of the left lung cavity with dimensions 54 × 38mm adjacent to the pulmonary artery trunk, entangling the aorto-pulmonary window with bronchial infiltration into segments 1–3 and the upper left pulmonary vein as well as enlarged lymph nodes (). The bronchoscopy revealed an infiltration spreading along the apicoposterior segment of the left upper lobe (LB1 + 2) bronchial wall. The histopathological examination of the biopsy taken from this lesion revealed partially keratinizing squamous cell carcinoma, CK5/6 (+), p63 (+) (), which in combination with the result of histopathological examination from the skin lesion confirmed the diagnosis of disseminated squamous cell lung cancer. To exclude other metastases, diagnostic imaging was performed, and no