The individual was a 24-year-old African American male inpatient at a state psychiatric facility. His psychiatric diagnoses included unspecified schizophrenia and psychosis as well as alcohol, cannabis, and nicotine use disorders. His somatic diagnoses included benign ethnic neutropenia and constipation. During the time of this report, his psychiatric medications included haloperidol decanoate 300 mg IM every 28 days in the deltoid and quetiapine 800 mg PO at 9 pm for the past 1.5 years. His somatic medications included polyethylene glycol, docusate, and benztropine. During a previous admission, the patient received daily PO haloperidol (maximum 40 mg/d) but did not receive decanoate. He had no known food or drug allergies. Both haloperidol decanoate and quetiapine were continued at these doses throughout the duration of this case report.
As part of the hospital's routine vital sign monitoring, monthly temperatures were recorded for the patient from hospital day (HD) 1-263. With the local onset of the COVID-19 pandemic, daily temperatures were recorded starting on HD 263. Because of the increased frequency in temperature monitoring, a pattern began to emerge in which the patient's temperature was noted to be elevated shortly after receiving his haloperidol decanoate injections (). Upon questioning, the patient reported feeling feverish after injections since the beginning of haloperidol decanoate therapy, but no fevers were recorded due to the infrequency of temperature monitoring prior to the COVID-19 pandemic. He also reported that there was usual injection site pain, swelling, and a “knot” feeling that resolved within a few days. During the time of the fever, muscle rigidity or mental status changes were not observed. Out of the 11 haloperidol injections after initiation of daily temperature monitoring, a temperature of greater than or equal to 100.0°F occurred after 7 injections, each within 2 or 3 days. After each of these occurrences, he received 1 to 2 doses of acetaminophen, and the temperature returned