A 40-yr-old, Malaysian male was diagnosed with schizophrenia at the age of 25 years old. During that time, he presented with headache, vomiting, and auditory hallucinations for two years. He received oral risperidone 4 mg once daily together with intramuscular depot injection of fluphenazine 25 mg monthly. Despite the current regime of treatment, he was still experiencing residual mild psychiatric symptoms such as auditory hallucination. However, he is able to tolerate it and does not affect his basic daily functioning. He can sleep at night and his appetite remains good. For the past medical history, he had a short duration of admission history in a psychiatric ward which was about 6 years ago. He had no history of major surgical procedure. However, he had histories involved in minor motor vehicle accidents, which he sustained, minor wound for 6 times in the past 10 years.
He is single and currently stays with his mother. They live in an urban area and came from a middle-income family. He had a basic primary level of education. None of his family had a history of psychiatric illness. He previously worked as a cafe helper but remains unemployed for the past year due to lack of interest. He had no history of travel or petting cats. He is a heavy smoker and casual alcohol drinker. He had a history of using a psychoactive substance such as ecstasy 10 years ago.
Upon physical examination, he was comfortable, calm and able to give full cooperation. His speech was coherent and relevant. His mood was euthymic, while his affect was appropriate to his thought. There was a minimal auditory hallucination in which he could not elaborate further. Otherwise, central nervous system examinations were normal. No lymph nodes were palpable and other systemic examination was unremarkable. He was recruited from the Psychiatric Clinic for research on toxoplasmosis among psychiatric patients in the year 2018.
The study was approved by the Research Ethics Committee, the National University of Malaysia