A 37-year-old woman presented with multiple masses on the scalp. She underwent an excisional biopsy of the scalp mass at a local clinic and visited our hospital for further work up. Computed tomography of the neck revealed a poorly enhancing mass lesion in the left lobe of the thyroid measuring about 1 cm with ipsilateral cervical lymph node metastasis (). An ultrasonographic examination of the thyroid revealed a 0.9 cm hypoechoic mass without increased vascularity (). Ultrasound-guided fine-needle aspiration (FNA) was done to rule out the possibility of primary thyroid cancer. Unlike a typical thyroid malignancy, the aspirated material was sticky and difficult to aspirate.
The alcohol-fixed smears were stained with hematoxylin and eosin and Papanicolau for the cytologic examination. The cytological smears were hypercellular and displayed spindle cell clusters in hemorrhagic background. No necrotic material was observed. The spindle cells were arranged in a fascicular pattern and showed an indistinct cell border. The cells had eosinophilic and fibrillary cytoplasm. Individual cells showed variation in nuclear size and shape. However, the nuclei of most of the cells were hyperchromatic and large, and they demonstrated an elongated shape with blunt ends (). Normal follicular cells were admixed with pleomorphic tumor cells, and were also observed around tumor cell clusters (). These features raised the suspicion for a malignant tumor of mesenchymal origin.
Histological slides from the resection specimen of the scalp mass revealed a small nodular mass measuring 0.8 × 0.6 cm. The tumor cells were arranged in bundles or fascicles of smooth muscle fibers (). They were highly pleomorphic and had a centrally located, blunted, cigar-shaped nucleus adjacent to perinuclear cytoplasmic vacuoles. The mitotic rate was high (7 mitosis per 10 high-power field), but there was no area of necrosis. Immunohistochemical staining showed a positive result for smooth muscle actin (SMA) and desmin ().
Positron emission tomography–computed tomography revealed several hypermetabolic masses on the right side of the abdomen