A 73-year-old man with a 20 pack-year history of cigarette smoking presented with a painless lump over the palate (). Biopsy confirmed a diagnosis of carcinoma with clear cell features. Staging scans did not reveal evidence of nodal involvement or distant metastases. Following right subtotal maxillectomy and selective neck dissection (), reconstruction was performed with a free anterolateral thigh musculocutaneous flap ().
End-to-end microvascular anastomosis was performed with Ethilon 9-0 sutures. The flap artery and two veins (descending branch of the lateral circumflex femoral artery and paired venae comitantes) were anastomosed to the right superior thyroid artery, a branch of the internal jugular vein, and a branch of the external jugular vein, respectively (). The flap was bleeding well after anastomosis, and inset was performed.
Thirty minutes later, bleeding from the flap was noted to have stopped, and inspection revealed an intraluminal thrombus at the arterial anastomosis. Milking of the thrombus was attempted but there was no improvement in flap perfusion. The flap and all anastomoses were taken down, and thrombi were noted distally within the branches of the flap artery (muscle branches and perforators). The vessels were milked from as distally as is possible along the main pedicle. However, attempts at flushing with heparinized saline were still met with high resistance, indicating that there was thrombosis further distally where muscle and musculocutaneous perforators entered the flap. Hence a decision was made for flap thrombolysis.
Both veins were clamped, and 10 mg of rTPA was injected through the artery, which was then clamped as well (). After 10 minutes, all clamps were released, and 30 mL of heparinized saline was injected through the artery to flush out the rTPA. This process was repeated, providing a total of 20 mg of rTPA instillation. Five thousand units of intravenous heparin were given. Microvascular anastomosis was then repeated, and the flap was noted to be bleeding well. Flap