A 31-year-old woman with no notable medical history, no usage of medications or tobacco, and fair oral hygiene was referred to a specialist unit with the chief complaint of a lingual gingival recession at the lower right central incisor (Figure ). She had orthodontic treatment while in her teens and later, in 2017, because of a relapse. Shortly after bonding the mandibular appliance in 2017, the patient became aware of an apical displacement of the gingival margin at the lingual surface of central incisor (Figure ). At the time of referral, the patient was diagnosed with a lingual recession measuring 4 mm vertically and 1.5 mm horizontally at the level of the CEJ. The phenotype was regarded as thin. The axial direction of the central incisor was characterized as neutral, without labial or lingual root torque. A definite labial frenal pull and a narrow zone of keratinized attached gingiva coronal to the fibrous attachment were diagnosed (Figure ). The lingual defect was classified according to Smith's classification (the only system that classifies both lingual and palatal recessions). Radiographs of mandibular central incisors showed short roots without loss of interdental bone, but with widened periodontal membrane apically. The incisors responded positively to cold test.
Clinical and radiographic findings in maxillary and mandibular jaws indicated a need for atraumatic oral hygiene instruction. The patient was therefore instructed in roll-brushing technique both lingually and labially. A grafting procedure to cover the lingual recession on the mandibular central incisor was not advocated due to a rather questionable prognosis for such a root coverage procedure.
The labial mandibular frenulum was associated with a decreased vestibular depth, a narrow zone of keratinized attached gingiva, and fiber pull (Figure ). To prophylactically reduce the risk of developing a labial recession on the left central incisor, a decision was made to perform a frenectomy with excision of marginally attached connective tissue fibers. During the surgery, a lab