The patient was a 30-year-old woman who was diagnosed with peripheral vascular disease 9 years prior to this encounter. She presented to our clinic with complaints of worsening pain in the lower extremities with activity and sometimes pain at rest. The patient had a medical history of hypertension and admitted to non-compliance with medication. She has been smoking cigarettes for 11 years and usually consumes 1 pack per day. In addition, she reported a strong family history of coronary artery disease. The patient was taken to the office-based lab located within the clinic and was prepared sterilely for a catheter arteriogram.
Catheter arteriogram results showed significant occlusion of the left iliac artery ( and ), the right iliac artery (), as well as the distal abdominal aorta (). There were numerous collateral vessels noted, indicating the presence of long-standing proximal stenosis (). The decision was made to use angioplasty to help widen the areas of stenosis. An 8 mm × 40 mm Passeo balloon was advanced from the right femoral artery into the left iliac artery () and insufflated to 6 mmHg (). The balloon was allowed to remain expanded for 1 min and then was deflated. Next, the distal aorta was repaired in a similar fashion. The balloon was advanced into the distal aorta from the right femoral access and insufflated to 12 mmHg (). The balloon was allowed to remain expanded for 90 s.
Lastly, the right iliac artery () was treated using the same method (). After completion of the angioplasty procedure, catheter arteriogram was repeated to visualize the effectiveness of the procedure in relieving the extensive stenosis. The imaging revealed almost complete restoration of the diameter of both left and right iliac arteries ( and ). The distal aorta also showed improved diameter after the procedure (). Angiogram of both lower extremities was also performed. The catheter was passed distal to the stenosis that was previously present in the left iliac artery, to help visualize perfusion of its distal branches ( and ). The catheter was