A 60-year-old male patient reported to the outpatient department of the authors' institution with the complaint of pain and swelling in the lower front tooth region for 15 days. The patient gave a history of extraction 1 month back due to loosened teeth following which he noticed a soft-tissue overgrowth in his mandibular anterior tooth region. The patient had the habit of bidi smoking for 30 years. Extraoral examination did not reveal any significant findings. He also experienced dull pain associated with this overgrowth. The submandibular and submental lymph nodes on the ipsilateral side were palpable.
On inspection, a soft nodular growth measuring about approximately 5 cm × 3 cm × 2 cm was seen on the mandibular anterior region. The lesion was pinkish white in color and ulceroproliferative in nature. The lesion was extending labiolingually from labial attached gingiva to lingual attached gingiva and mesiodistally from mandibular left canine to mandibular right first premolar region []. The growth was tender and firm in consistency. Based on clinical findings, a provisional diagnosis of aggressive inflammatory lesion with a differential diagnosis of granulomatous lesion and carcinoma of gingiva was made. No significant findings were noticed in an orthopantomogram. After routine hematological investigations, an incisional biopsy was performed. The tissue specimen was routinely fixed and processed. The H- and E-stained sections showed dysplastic epithelium invading into the connective tissue stroma. Invaded epithelial cells were in the form of nests, islands, and sheets composed of basaloid cells showing hyperchromatic large nuclei and indistinct cytoplasm [Figures and ]. Areas of comedonecrosis were seen in between the sheets of cells []. Frequent mitotic figures were also evident. The stroma also showed numerous blood vessels with areas of hemorrhage. Based on the histopathological findings, a diagnosis of BSCC with differential diagnosis of adenoid cystic carcinoma (ACC) (solid variant) was made. To differentiate between the two tumors, periodic acid–Schiff (PAS) stain and immunohistochemical