An 82-year-old man complained of serious backache accompanied by radiating pain to the right lower extremity.
The patient presented to a local hospital for acute exacerbation of chronic lower back pain 3 mo ago. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) revealed a high signal area in T2-weighted images of the vertebral bodies of L3 and L4, with the L2/3 presenting corresponding segment canal stenosis (Figure ). However, the patient did not exhibit any obvious lower extremity neurological symptoms. Therefore, PVP was performed based on the diagnosis of OVCF (L3, L4). Unfortunately, bone cement leakage occurred during the surgery, which led to severe neurological symptoms. Computed tomography (CT) revealed that the right intervertebral foramen of L3/4 had a high density shadow (Figure ). Leaked bone cement compressed the root of the L3 nerve, which caused a stabbing pain radiating to the skin of the anterior-lateral thigh. A local surgeon administered an epidural steroid injection that can temporarily alleviate neurological symptoms. However, after 2 d, the patient’s pain recurred and was unbearable. The patient was transferred to our hospital and complained of lower back pain accompanied by radiating pain in the right thigh. The patient was maintained in bedridden status because even light activity resulted in unbearable pain. We therefore performed a partial facetectomy to retrieve the leaked bone cement using a posterior approach. Following this procedure, the neurological symptoms completely resolved, although slight backache persisted. The patient was subsequently discharged from the hospital.
After 3 mo, the patient experienced serious backache accompanied by radiating pain to the right lower extremity and revisited our hospital. The radiating pain was mainly located from the back of the thigh to the inner side of the shin. The visual analog scale score was 8.
The patient had a previous diagnosis of high blood pressure and coronary heart disease.
The patient had been drinking for about 20