A 24-year-old Hispanic woman presented to our medical center with cutaneous and mucosal bleeding. The patient was in her usual state of health on the morning of admission day. In the evening she noticed raised purple lesions on her tongue and a diffuse rash consisting of regularly shaped, flat, purple spots on her legs. The patient sought out an urgent care where she was found to have critically low platelets with a platelet count of 1,000 platelets per microliter and was transferred to the Emergency Department. The patient noted the rash must have developed between 12:45 pm–5:30 pm on the day of her admission. The rash was not associated with pain or pruritis. A full review of systems was performed which was negative other than presence of increased menstrual bleeding on the day of admission.
Past medical history is remarkable for dysfunctional uterine bleeding secondary to her Etonogestrel implant, mild asthma controlled with as needed albuterol inhaler, and vitamin D deficiency. The patient reported allergies to shellfish and penicillin, both of which give her hives. In addition, she reported a history of local reaction to a vaccine after receiving influenza vaccine and pneumonia vaccine in same arm on same day in October 2019. She denied family history of bleeding disorders, hematologic conditions, and autoimmune conditions. She endorsed social drinking but denied use of tobacco products (including vape devices, cigarettes, smokeless tobacco) and other illicit drugs. There were no recent changes to her home environment. The patient denied recent allergic exposures, sick contact, or recent viral illness. However, she reported receiving her first dose of the Pfizer SARS-2-Coronavirus ten days prior. On physical examination, the patient was afebrile, hemodynamically stable, and showing no signs of active bleeding. On examination of the skin and mucous membranes, she had hemorrhagic bullae of the oral mucosa and tongue and a diffuse petechial rash of the bilateral lower extremities and abdomen with scant spots