A 29-year-old, G2P2 mother was diagnosed with blue rubber bleb nevus syndrome more than five years ago and has had two pregnancies while being treated with sirolimus. These children were small for gestational age at birth and are the focus of this case report. Upon diagnosis of this rare disorder, the patient was treated with oral sirolimus 2mg twice daily. Her cutaneous lesions resolved significantly at 6 months follow up. She had a flare up of the lesions when she discontinued treatment before preconception. Her family history is unremarkable. She conceived naturally at one year of sirolimus therapy through a non-consanguineous marriage. Both the partners are of average built and denied tobacco, alcohol or substance use. In view of the previous flare up history following preconception planning, she was advised to continue sirolimus by the treating physician. Prenatal care for the first pregnancy included an ultrasound for determination of gestational age and routine monitoring of possible side effects of sirolimus. Regular blood investigation revealed normal complete blood count, liver and renal functions, sugar and lipid profile. Routine antenatal checkup done at the rural health care center by the Health Assistant were uneventful. Records maintained in the prenatal care book showed normal blood pressure, maternal weight gain, height of fundus corresponding to gestational age and normal hemoglobin level. Fetal ultrasound done at 36 weeks of gestation at the district hospital by a sonographer technician revealed a single live fetus with adequate amniotic fluid and expected fetal weight corresponding to 34 weeks. In view of maternal medical condition, sirolimus therapy and suspected fetal growth restriction, the mother was referred to the tertiary hospital. No gross anomalies were noted on limited anomaly examination and umbilical artery doppler study was within the normal range for the gestational age. At 40 weeks, she delivered a normal live male newborn weighing 2200 grams (<10th percentile on the customized fetal growth chart) with Apgar score of 9 and 10 at 1 and 10 minutes respectively. The baby had poor suckling and presumed physiological jaundice which were