In June 2019, a 57-year-old Cantonese male patient presented with a mass in the right subscapular area. His past medical history included a diagnosis of undifferentiated non-keratinizing NPC (World Health Organization type III, restaged as T3N1M0 III according to the American Joint Committee on Cancer staging manual, 8th edition) 18 months prior to the present episode of care. At that time, the pathological diagnosis was based on histopathological typing without immunohistochemical analysis. Moreover, the patient tested negative for the presence of plasma EBV DNA. After being diagnosed with NPC, he received definitive chemoradiotherapy in our hospital. Intensity-modulated radiation therapy was delivered to the primary tumor and involved lymph nodes planning target volume in 33 fractions for a total dose of 70 Gy; high- and low-risk planning target volumes received 60 and 54 Gy, respectively, in the same number of fractions. Concurrent chemotherapy regimen comprised 100 mg/m2 of cisplatin for three cycles. The patient experienced no serious adverse events during treatment and achieved complete response. After 1 year of follow-up, he remained without signs of disease progression. Three months prior to the present episode of care, the patient felt tightness in the right scapula and discovered an enlarged mass.
On the day of admission, the patient had a major complaint of paroxysmal scapula pain without other symptoms. He experienced rapid weight loss (3 kg in the month prior to admission). The patient never drank alcohol or smoked and indicated no family history of cancer, autoimmune disorders, and infectious diseases. On physical examination, his temperature was 36.6°C, heart rate was 79 beats per minute, blood pressure was 109/76 mmHg, weight was 50.3 kg, and height was 166 cm. We found no visible mass in the nasopharynx or enlarged cervical lymph nodes. The scapular mass measured 4 cm × 8 cm. His neurological examination was normal. Laboratory findings on admission are shown in . Notably, serum