A 58-year-old woman was admitted to the Cardiovascular Department on September 24, 2017 for paroxysmal palpitations, chest tightness, and dizziness of approximately 6 mo duration without a history of syncope or structural heart disease.
Fatty liver, a rough gallbladder wall, and plaque formation in the left internal carotid artery were demonstrated by ultrasonography, which suggested liver disease, cholecystitis, and carotid atherosclerosis. The left ventricle was slightly enlarged, and the pulmonary artery was widened. The cardiac examination revealed mild mitral regurgitation. The ejection fraction was normal. Chest computed tomography (CT) showed a few old lesions in the middle lobe of the right lung and small nodules in the lower lobe of the right lung. A possible “drop effect” was noted in the lower lobe of the left lung. Thickening of the pleura was present bilaterally. Mediastinal lymphadenopathy was also detected. Double-phase angiography of the left atrium pulmonary vein showed no abnormalities. The patient was not treated for any of these findings before the current hospitalization because no imaging studies had ever been performed on the patient.
The patient denied cigarette smoking and consumption of alcohol. She had a history of hypertension for 20 years, for which the highest recorded blood pressure was 220/110 mmHg; she was treated with valsartan and amlodipine. The blood pressure was well-controlled.
The patient denied family history.
A physical examination was performed once on the patient after hospitalization. The patient had shortness of breath with a respiratory rate of 30 per min. Auscultation of both lungs was significant for thick breath sounds without dry rales, wet rales, or a pleural friction rub. Percussion of the heart was normal. Palpation of the apex beat was normal with a heart rate of 179 per min, and the rhythm was irregular. No heart murmur was heard in each valve auscultation area, and there was no pericardial friction rub. There was no edema in