A 2-month-old boy was admitted to our hospital due to persistent feeding difficulties, poor weight gain and weak crying for 2 mo.
The patient was the second child of his mother and was born via spontaneous vaginal delivery. The gestational age was 34 wk. Apgar score was 10 points. There were no abnormalities in the placenta and umbilical cord except for oligohydramnios (100 mL). At birth, the infant had the following birth parameters: 31.5 cm head circumference, 2.5 kg body weight, and 46 cm length, placing him in the 25–50th percentile in Chinese newborns. Ten minutes later, he was immediately admitted to the neonatal intensive care unit because of transient respiratory difficulty, and was diagnosed with neonatal hypoglycemia and congenital anal atresia. He was thereafter treated with respiratory support, glucose rehydration, and surgical correction of the anal atresia. Three weeks later, he was discharged from the hospital except feeding difficulty and poor weight gain.
The patient was the second child of Chinese parents who were healthy and non-consanguineous. He was born at 34 weeks’ gestation from a healthy 32-year-old woman via spontaneous vaginal delivery. Prenatal ultrasound imaging showed that the mother had reduced amniotic fluid level since 32 weeks’ gestation and the amniotic fluid index was 7.0 cm. The ultrasound imaging also suggested mild hydronephrosis with dilatation of the upper ureteral diameter (0.6 cm) on the right kidney. There were no other abnormalities identified. The mother had irregular vaginal bleeding 8 h before delivery. His mother did not suffer from fever or use tobacco, alcohol, or illicit drugs during the entire pregnancy.
The infant was born at 34 weeks’ gestation from a healthy 32-year-old woman via spontaneous vaginal delivery and the father was aged 34 years. The parents were healthy and unrelated. The infant had a healthy 4-year-old brother. Family history was unremarkable.
He had severe malnutrition and poor skin elasticity with stable vital