The manuscript was prepared and revised according to the CARE Checklist (2016), and the reporting of this study conforms to the CARE guidelines.
A 60-year-old male patient visited our outpatient clinic for treatment of unilateral SSNHL accompanied by vertigo. He had first presented with SSNHL of the right ear 2 months previously and visited another ear, nose, and throat clinic. He had been prescribed high-dose prednisolone and treated for 2 weeks, but his hearing did not fully recover and he visited our clinic.
The patient had a previous medical history of type 2 diabetes mellitus and hypertension. Seven years before the examination, he suffered from myocardial infarction and had coronary stents inserted. He was medicated for diabetes mellitus and hypertension, but this was poorly controlled because of poor drug compliance. He had a history of 10 pack-years of smoking since the age of 20 years. He drank alcohol eight times a month every month for 40 years. There was neither a history of a previous diagnosis of malignancy nor clinical evidence of a current malignant tumor.
The patient reported unilateral hearing loss of the right ear, with positional vertigo and intermittent headaches. Otoscopic findings were normal. No other neurological symptoms were observed.
An audiogram showed deafness of the right ear at all frequencies and high-frequency sensorineural hearing loss of the left ear (). Under videonystagmography, there was no definite nystagmus at rest or after a head-shake test. The video head impulse test was performed and showed decreased gain and covert saccade in the right posterior canal test, and decreased gain in the left posterior canal test. An overt saccade was observed on the left lateral canal test ().
Gadolinium contrast-enhanced MRI of the head revealed bilateral IAC enhancement, with an 11 × 6-mm lesion on the right and a 9 × 6-mm lesion with cystic change on the left (). Additionally, multiple, variable-sized, nodular and peripheral-enhancing lesions in the