A 60-year-old Caucasian male came to the clinic with the chief compliant: “I am not able to eat and my teeth and implants hurt all the time.” Patient was a smoker with extremely poor oral hygiene. The patient presented with an open palate bar supported overdenture in the maxilla retained by six implants which were in service for 8 years. The patient had moved soon after denture delivery and failed to return to any dental practitioner for maintenance and recall.
Diagnostic impressions, intraoral images, and radiographs were made for the patient. Examination of the maxillary arch revealed mucosal hyperplasia and mucositis, gingival to the overdenture bar. The mucosal hyperplasia resulted in the loss of space between the bar and tissue []. The mucosa was very tender and inflamed. The radiographic evaluation indicated that the mucositis had extended to the bone resulting in chronic peri-implantitis. Two of the six implants had severe peri-implantitis and were deemed to be in failure. The mandibular teeth were covered with calculus, heavily stained, were affected by caries and severe generalized chronic periodontitis. Patient was aware that his remaining lower teeth were not restorable. Poor oral hygiene was identified as the main causative factor in the degradation of the dental tissues.
The patient was explained in detail that his problems were related to his poor oral hygiene and lack of professional maintenance. Patient was thoroughly educated regarding the importance of adequate and effective oral hygiene on the long-term success of the new restorations. Once the patient committed to maintaining his hygiene and his restorations a treatment plan was formulated for the patient as follows:
Extraction of mandibular teeth Placement of two to four implants in the mandible Fabrication of implant supported overdenture for the mandible Unsplinted attachments (Locators, Zest Anchors) Strict maintenance and recall [].
Removal of hypertrophied tissue underneath the maxillary bar Removal of two compromised maxillary implants Treatment of remaining maxillary implants Un