R. A. is a 51 y/o male with a history of uncontrolled, non-medicated diabetes and a 20 pack-year cigarette habit who presented to the emergency department on July, 17 2011 with fibrinous discharge from a 5 × 3 cm wound in the left lower extremity. The patient was involved in a motorcycle accident in 2009 in the Dominican Republic that resulted in open fractures of the left tibia and fibula. He subsequently underwent four surgeries in the Dominican Republic on the left lower extremity, including a surgery that involved placement of a plastic implant in the left proximal tibia (). After moving to the United States, R. A. presented to the Emergency Department after noticing opening of the operative site at the left proximal tibia and exposure of the plastic implant with associated discharge.
Upon physical examination, R. A. was noted to have a 5 × 3 cm wound about the anterior aspect of the left proximal tibia. The wound extended through the associated soft tissues of the limb and a cement spacer implant, which was used to fill the bone void at the left tibia during a previous surgery in the Dominican Republic, was visible (). Much of the anterior portion of the spacer was exposed to air. There was fibrinous exudate around the injured area but no frank erythema. Soft tissue examinations of the injured area demonstrated decreased attenuation and edema in the tibialis posterior muscle. It was noted that there was periostial new bone formation about the margins of the distal tibial fragment. Evaluation of the left fibula demonstrated non-unioned fracture in the proximal third fibular shaft.
On July 20, 2011 R. A. underwent surgery on the left lower extremity, which included irrigation and debridement, intraoperative deep tissue biopsy, removal of the plastic spacer implant, insertion of antibiotic beads, and insertion of an antibiotic spacer at the site of the segmental defect of the proximal tibia. The segmental defect length was approximately nine cm, with the intact proximal tibia measuring 2.5