Our first patient was a 67-year-old male with a medical history of diabetes mellitus type II, hypertension, and benign polyps in the colon (three polypectomies). The patient had a history of tobacco use during the last 50 years; at the time of reference, he smoked 10 cigarettes daily. He had no alcohol overconsumption. When referred, the patient had suffered from dysphagia for 2 months, and he only consumed fluids. Besides a weight loss of 8 kg (weight at referral 83 kg, weight loss corresponding to 9% of initial body weight), the first physical examination was unremarkable, as were the initial blood tests. The primary endoscopy revealed a mucosa covered with white plaques spreading from 30 to 40 cm from the incisors. In the distal part of the affected area, the mucosa protruded and covered almost 2/3 of the lumen and involved the entire circumference (fig. ). The finding was thought to be a candida infection. Biopsies showed severe acute inflammation with reactive changes but without dysplasia or malignancy. A computed tomography (CT) scan showed a thickened wall in the distal part of the esophagus. Since no malignancy was found, the patient was discharged.
Four months later, the patient was referred again due to a further massive weight loss of 25 kg; at this time he weighed only 58 kg (weight loss corresponding to 36% of initial body weight). Gastroscopy and blood test were performed again, and human immunodeficiency virus, herpes, and HPV infection were ruled out. To rule out achalasia of the esophagus and gastroesophageal junction, a high-resolution impedance manometry examination was performed followed by a positron emission tomography (PET)-CT scan, but neither could explain the condition the patient suffered from. During this period of approximately 4 months, the patient was hospitalized at the Department of Infectious Diseases.
Six months after the first visit, another gastroscopy was performed showing ulceration and a process protruding into the lumen. The biopsy revealed a squamous cell papilloma. In view of