A 60-year-old male reported with the chief complaint of swelling in the lower anterior jaw region of 15 days duration. Patient related this finding to an episode of extraction which was carried out 2 days before the development of the lesion. The patient confirmed that the swelling was smaller initially and grew progressively to its present dimension of approximately 3 cm × 4 cm associated with a gnawing pain. There was no history of bleeding or pus discharge and mouth opening was within acceptable limits. History of tobacco use suggested that the patient was pan chewer and bidi smoker for over 20 years, with abstinence from these habits only in the last 1 year. Patient's oral hygiene was poor and the submental lymph nodes were palpable. General examination revealed that the patient was well built and nourished with no reported weight loss in the recent past.
The intraoral examination showed an irregular, solitary, sessile growth on the lower anterior alveolar region extending from the mandibular left first premolar region to mandibular right lateral incisor region with the involvement of the lower lingual vestibule []. The swelling was erythematous and tender on palpation with mucosal ulceration and sloughing on its inferoposterior aspect.
Intraoral periapical radiograph of the lower anterior region revealed an irregular radiolucency in the symphyseal region with root resorption of the associated teeth. The mandibular occlusal radiograph showed slight expansion of the buccal cortical plate. The digital orthopantomogram suggested a diffuse radiolucent area extending from the roots of mandibular right canine to the left premolar region with resorption in relation to mandibular right lateral incisor []. A provisional diagnosis of intraosseous malignancy was made, and the patient was advised biopsy.
The tissue submitted for histological examination was pale white to brown in color, rubbery in texture and firm in consistency. Histopathologically, tumor cells arranged in the form of cords and islands were seen in the connective tissue stroma. Under higher magnification, multiple large ductal structures with cribriform growth pattern were seen