In the present case study, authors observed variations in course and branching pattern of the brachial artery in the left upper extremity of 82-year-old male cadaver during routine dissection.
Brachial artery was seen medial to the median nerve in the proximal arm region. At the level of the middle one-third of the arm, bifurcation of brachial artery into medial and lateral branches was observed. Medial branch crossed median nerve to become SBA at lower one-third of the arm, whereas lateral branch which was located on the deeper plane in relation to median nerve continued as deep brachial artery (DBA). At the level of apex of cubital fossa, SBA was seen dividing into SUA and SRA [].
In the region of lower two-third of the arm, DBA was the main source of vascular supply to all the surrounding muscles. At the level of insertion of biceps brachii tendon, DBA was trifurcated into common interosseous, medial and lateral branch. Common interosseous artery after a short course of about 1 cm, divided into anterior and posterior interosseous artery which followed their normal course. The anterior interosseous artery was seen supplying the majority of superficial as well as deep muscles in the flexor compartment of the forearm. Posterior interosseous artery passed through an opening between oblique cord and interosseous membrane to enter the posterior compartment and supplied the muscles of back of forearm. Medial branch was a comparative smaller branch supplying pronator teres muscle. Lateral branch supplied brachioradialis muscle and extensor carpi radialis longus muscle [].
In the forearm, SUA was seen first lying in relation to pronator teres muscle and then, flexor carpi ulnaris muscle and was not accompanied by ulnar nerve as nerve was lying on the deeper plane. However, at the level of wrist both structures came to lie adjacent to each other and thereafter followed normal course as that followed by normal ulnar artery in the palm. SRA coursed first in the middle of forearm