A 55-year-old Caucasian female former smoker with a past medical history of hypertension and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) presented to an outside hospital with altered mental status and acute renal failure 3 days after an uncomplicated right total hip arthroplasty performed for avascular necrosis of the femoral head secondary to chronic steroid use. Initial workup included computed tomography (CT) imaging of the chest, abdomen and pelvis and was significant only for aspirated material in the trachea. She was urgently transferred to our tertiary referral center for further workup and management. On admission, she was obtunded, hypotensive, found to have a well-healing right hip wound, and her abdomen was noted to be soft, non-distended and non-tender. She was intubated for hypercarbic respiratory failure, started on broad-spectrum antibiotics, and given stress dose steroids for hypotension.
She underwent an extensive workup for a source of infection including blood cultures, urinalysis, lumbar puncture, viral assays and repeat CT imaging of the chest abdomen and pelvis on hospital day (HD) 2 that was significant only for mildly dilated loops of small bowel consistent with an ileus. Blood cultures returned positive on HD2 for Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Klebsiella oxytoca. She had a mild leukocytosis and normal lactate. During the following week, she had continued need for critical care although she was weaned off of vasopressors and was tolerating enteral nutrition. Within that period, she was also started on a heparin drip for a questionable deep vein thrombosis. On HD11 her kidney injury acutely worsened leading to hyperkalemia for which she received a single 30 g dose of oral kayexalate without sorbitol. Later that day, she was placed on continuous renal replacement therapy (CRRT) for oliguric renal failure. On HD13, she was noted to have bloody diarrhea with increased abdominal distention on exam. The leukocytosis was found elevated to 24 000/mm3 with a normal lactate. A repeat abdominal/p