A 55-year-old woman presented with worsening dyspnea over the past 12 months. She had no medical or surgical history. Cardiovascular risk factors associated were arterial hypertension, hypercholesterolemia, former smoking history and obesity (body mass index 32.9 kg/m2). The physical examination was normal, except for a 3/6 systolic murmur audible at the apex and along the left sternal border. The electrocardiogram was also normal. Chest X-ray showed situs solitus, levocardia, mildly increased cardiothoracic index, and pulmonary plethora. TTE revealed severe mitral regurgitation (MR) due to a mitral valve structural abnormality. A linear structure was present in the left ventricle outflow tract (LVOT) connecting the basal interventricular septum with the tip of the anterior mitral leaflet, restricting the mitral valve motion and causing severe MR. There was no evidence of LVOT obstruction. Both LV volumes and ejection fraction were normal, with no wall motion abnormalities. An abnormal high velocity systolic jet was visualized in the RA ( and in the online-only Data Supplement) with a peak velocity of 5.2 m/s (). There were no indirect signs of pulmonary hypertension. Therefore, an abnormal communication between the LV and the RA was suspected. The TEE exam confirmed the LV to RA shunt above the septal leaflet of the tricuspid valve consistent with a Gerbode type defect ( and in the onlineonly Data Supplement). TEE also revealed a more detailed linear structure in the LVOT ( in the online-only Data Supplement) connecting the basal interventricular septum with the tip of the anterior mitral leaflet, restricting the mitral valve motion and causing severe MR ( and in the online-only Data Supplement).
The preoperative coronary angiography revealed normal coronary arteries. No opacification of the RA during left ventriculography was observed, and the absence of pulmonary hypertension was confirmed at right heart catheterization. The patient underwent successful mitral valve replacement with a mechanical prosthesis and resection of abnormal LVOT chord, as well