A 46-year-old male presented the emergency department with a history of a decline in his mental status and reduced level of cognition for four months. The history had to be elicited from a relative. The symptoms were associated with an unsteady gait of and urinary incontinence. He sought medical care five months prior to his presentation for weakness of the right side involving right upper and lower limbs associated with facial numbness and slurred speech. The CT brain at that time showed diffuse atrophic and small vessel changes with mild hydrocephalus (). He was suspected to have an atherosclerotic cerebrovascular accident and was treated empirically with aspirin, simvastatin and atenolol. As his condition was worsening he was brought to the Emergency Room, 5 months later. He had a progressive decline in his level of cognition, speech and gait was unable to express himself to the extent where his answers became yes or no responses. He became unable to care for himself independently. There was also significant weight loss of 20 pounds over the preceding three months without any change in appetite. He had no significant medical history. His prior medication included aspirin, atenolol, simvastatin, which was started since the presumed cerebrovascular event, associated with mild dyslipidemia and hypertension. The family history was non-contributory. However, he had a 20-pack year history of smoking but stopped one year prior, and a history of alcohol use for 25 years. There was no history of herbal, marijuana, cocaine or other illicit drug use. There were no recent ill contacts or travel, and he never received blood transfusions or tattoos. His relatives reported that he only had one sexual partner with whom he had three children and no history of prior sexual transmitted conditions.
On examination he was not in respiratory distress. He was anicteric, acyanotic, afebrile and his mucus membranes were pink and moist. The pupils were equal round and reactive to light. He had a Glasgow Coma Scale of 12/15 accounted by the following responses