A 46-year-old man with no history of smoking or alcohol use was admitted with a 6-month history of dysphagia and associated dyspnea with worsening symptoms for 1 month. There was no obvious cause for his dysphagia and associated dyspnea. Bronchoscopy examination revealed bronchial stenosis, but no pathology studies or further treatment was performed. Soon thereafter, his symptoms worsened, and he developed cervical pain. Plain computed tomography (CT) of the trachea showed tracheal compression and displacement with slight narrowing. The subglottic tracheal wall was thickened (). The tumor did not invade the glottis (). Thyroid CT examination showed multiple thyroid nodules. The most prominent nodule was round and hypodense, and it was located in the right thyroid lobe (). The nodule measured 84 Hounsfield units (HU), unenhanced, and 95 HU with slight enhancement on a contrast-enhanced scan (). Examination of the rest of the head and neck showed no signs of tumor or lymphadenopathy.
During intraoperative exploration, we discovered unde-marcated invasion and fusion of the right thyroid lobe to the esophagus and posterolateral aspect of the trachea. Bilateral thyroid masses were resected, and frozen pathology was obtained, showing that both the masses were poorly differentiated carcinomas (). Owing to tumor invasion and extensive spread, radical resection would have been difficult. Hence, we decided to perform bilateral partial mass resections after a discussion with the family. Pathology showed that the tumor tissue had no capsule formation and grew in an infiltrative manner, invading the surrounding thyroid follicles. Tumor cells were cribriform or tubular, and they were distributed in a solid funicular pattern. The masses consisted of double-layer structures, with glandular epithelium as the inner layer and basal cells forming the outer layer. The cribriform structure was composed of differentially sized scattered or integrated smooth cellular islands, with a central, round space filled with slightly basophilic mucoid material (). There was little cell atypia, and mitosis was rare. Interstitial hyalinization was