A 53-year-old male presented with pain and swelling in the left thigh for a duration of 2 weeks, following a trivial trauma. The patient had a significant history of smoking. Local examination revealed hard, tender, circumferential bony swelling arising from diaphysis of the femur. The knee range of movements was normal without any distal neurovascular deficit. Radiograph of the femur revealed an aggressive lytic lesion with wide zone of transition, involving almost entire lower 2/3 of the femur with associated pathological fracture. Magnetic resonance image done at an outside center showed a lesion arising from diaphysis with a circumferential extraosseous soft tissue component, with disease involving almost the entire length of the femur []. This raised the suspicion of primary neoplasm of the bone. Detailed case history and imaging were discussed in multidisciplinary tumor board meeting, and core needle biopsy was planned with differential diagnosis of primary neoplasm of the bone or a metastatic secondary from a primary elsewhere. The limb was immobilized with Thomas splint to prevent fracture displacement. The patient was bedridden due to pathological fracture, pain, and splint and depended on the family for basic hygiene care.
Histopathological evaluation of core needle biopsy revealed metastatic adenocarcinoma, positive for thyroid transcription factor and cytokeratin 7 and to suspect primary from the lung. Further workup with computed tomography of the thorax revealed a primary in left lung and Tc-99m methylene diphosphonate bone scan showed additional skeletal metastasis in vertebrae. Epidermal growth factor receptor mutation tested on biopsy specimen showed positive for exon 19 in-frame deletion.
In view of gefitinib-sensitive EGFR mutation being positive, the patient was planned to treat with palliative intent with gefitinib and palliative radiation to symptomatic metastatic skeletal lesions. The patient received palliative radiation of 20 Gy to femur lesion and 8 Gy to vertebrae. Bisphosphonates (zoledronic acid) were also added to decrease pain and treat skeletal-related events. On treatment, the patient showed significant improvement in general condition, regression in the lung lesion, and healing of the femur pathological