A healthy 60-year-old male not known to have any chronic medical illnesses. presented to general surgery clinic complaining of bilateral groin painless swelling, for the past 2 years. In addition, he had a history of urinary hesitancy and intermittency developed in the past few months prior to presentation. He had no other gastrointestinal or lower urinary tract symptoms. He denied any history of heavy weight lifting. He has no history of smoking. He had undergone a left transabdominal preperitoneal (TAPP) inguinal hernia repair 8 years back in another hospital. The patient is married, and works as lawyer. He is not taking any medication, and he has an unremarkable family history. Upon physical examination, the patient was well built and well nourished. He weights 78 kg, and he is 180 cm tall (BMI 24.1 kg/m2). Local examination revealed a bilateral inguinal swelling that bulged upon Valsalva maneuver. The swelling was more prominent on the left side with no evidence of scrotal extension. The urinary bladder wasn't palpable. His blood test results showed a normal complete blood count, and kidney function. Abdominal Computed tomography (CT) with contrast was obtained which showed a bilateral inguinal hernia, both containing part of the urinary bladder more evident on the left side (Pelvic micky mouse sign) (, ), no bowel loops or omentum was detected in the hernia sac. Based on the clinical and radiological assessment the patient was diagnosed with bilateral bladder hernia and was planned for an elective open repair. Taking in account that the patient had a history of left TAPP inguinal hernia repair with the associated adhesion especially in the left side, and the preoperative diagnosis of bilateral sliding vesical hernia. The procedure was performed by a senior surgical resident under direct supervision of a general surgery consultant. The procedure was performed under spinal anesthesia. Intra-operatively Foley's catheter was inserted initially for urinary bladder decompression. Bilateral direct sliding inguinal hernia