A 75-year-old male with a history of essential hypertension, hyperlipidemia, and newly diagnosed type 2 diabetes mellitus presented to the office with complaint of generalized fatigue and worsening neurological symptoms of 4 weeks’ duration, which he attributed to the new start of metformin for his diabetes mellitus. He reported increasing muscle weakness along with poor coordination and recurrent falls to the left side. He had fallen not only while standing but also while getting on his bicycle. He had been experiencing difficulty turning his head either way sideways, along with difficulty turning the steering wheel of his recreational vehicle to the left side. Other symptoms included hoarse voice, dysphagia for solids and liquids, difficulty writing on a straight line, and difficulty typing on his keyboard. In the 6 weeks since his last office visit, he had lost 17 pounds, but denied fever, chills, night sweats, tick bite, or head trauma. There was no personal or family history of malignancy. He was a recently retired ophthalmologist with no recent travel and was a lifelong non-smoker.
On examination, he was afebrile and hemodynamically stable. He was alert and oriented to time, place, and person. There was left facial drooping but no sensory or other cranial nerve deficits. A wide-based stumbling gait with left foot drop was evident. Motor strength was decreased on left side compared to right, Babinski was equivocal on left side and deep tendon reflexes were 1+ throughout. He had decreased fine motor control with rapid finger movements and illegible signature, but cerebellar signs were otherwise normal. Routine blood tests, including complete blood count, basic metabolic panel, electrolytes, C-reactive protein, and coagulation profile, were unremarkable. Lyme antibody by ELISA was negative. Computed tomography (CT) of head revealed two focal lesions in right frontoparietal region with surrounding edema as shown in . Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) brain revealed a total of five enhancing lesions: two in