A 36-year-old single unemployed man who was first diagnosed with schizophrenia by a psychiatrist about 12 years ago is described here.
He remained in school until the eighth grade, when his abnormal behaviors at school caused him to stop his education. Also, for the same reason, he was fired from his job 2 years ago. He has been smoking cigarettes since 12years ago, and he started to smoke opium 11 years ago.
He did not have any evidence of brain damage or any major medical illnesses. He was the second child in a family of 6 with low socio-economic status. His parents were consanguineous and had no physical or mental abnormalities, although one of his younger brothers suffered from mental retardation. During the 12 years of his disease, he has been treated in both outpatient and inpatient settings. Due to exacerbation of his symptoms, he was admitted to a psychiatric ward on 4 occasions, and the course of his illness shows a fluctuating clinical picture. Since his first disease symptoms, he was diagnosed with personality disorder (borderline type), bipolar disorder, and even factitious disorder. His compliance with taking the prescribed medications and attending follow-ups has been very poor.
During the initial phase of his illness, he had prominent positive features, occasional violent outbursts, and delusions of persecution regarding his family and neighbors. All of his hospital admissions were due to psychotic exacerbations, which initially manifested as violent behavior and aggression towards others and then progressed to delusions of persecution, delusions of reference, and both auditory and visual hallucinations. During this phase of his disease, he was diagnosed with schizophrenia. He had a good appetite, but was suffering from early and terminal insomnia. He also had a history of self-mutilation from about ten years ago, but at the time of visit had no suicidal or homicidal thoughts or plans. His initial treatment plan included Valproic acid 200mg tablets TID (