A 72-year-old right-handed man with a history of severe headaches was admitted to our hospital emergency room. He was a non-smoker, not an alcoholic, and had no history of vascular disease. In 1995, he underwent an appendectomy and was diagnosed with gastritis. When his headaches were investigated in another hospital, the remnant of a transitory minimal subarachnoid hemorrhage was observed. A few years later, follow-up brain computed tomography (CT) to investigate the causes of recurrent headaches also revealed a right frontal chronic subdural hemorrhage. The time of diagnosis of these conditions is unknown.
On the morning of his visit to the emergency room, the patient had stuttering speech and left-sided hemiparesis. On arrival, his blood pressure was 137/87 and his pulse rate was 104. He was drowsy and the motor grade of his left side was zero. Subsequent brain CT showed a right frontal lobe intracerebral hemorrhage (), and intracerebral hemorrhage catheter insertion was performed on the same day. Brain CT conducted two days after the procedure showed resolution of the intracerebral hemorrhage. The patient's vital signs were stable, but he was still drowsy. Immediately after the operation, he suddenly became stuporous. However, brain CT performed to assess the cause of this mental change did not show signs of intracerebral hematoma. However, he was placed under observation. Approximately three hours after the operation, the patient returned to his previous state of drowsiness. He could not follow instructions but had some verbal output.
Seven days after the operation, the patient suffered respiratory difficulty and was intubated. No specific reasons could be identified that had aggravated his condition. Thus, another brain CT was performed and a new intracerebral hemorrhage was observed at the septum pellucidum (). On the 20th postoperative day, hyponatremia was observed in a routine laboratory test. On the 24th postoperative day, the patient's serum sodium level fell further. A brain CT scan conducted to identify the cause of this revealed a third intracerebral