A 73-year-old male smoker presented with a mass in the right upper lobe associated with mediastinal lymph node enlargement. The radiological profile was consistent with primary lung cancer; however, during endoscopic aspiration biopsy of the subcarinal lymph node, uncertainty arose as to whether it was a granulatomous lesion. Therefore, we opted for performing a transthoracic biopsy, as well as a mediastinal lymph node biopsy by mediastinoscopy, and, depending on the results of the intraoperative analysis, we would also insert an indwelling central catheter for chemotherapy. The patient was brought to the HOR, and the procedures were performed sequentially. Elective endotracheal intubation, large-bore peripheral venous access, and an indwelling urinary catheter were used. The patient was initially placed in the right lateral decubitus position for performance of a percutaneous Tru-Cut needle biopsy, with the gantry (Artis Zeego; Siemens, Munich, Germany) set to tomographic mode, by the interventional radiology team. Pathological examination of the biopsy specimen revealed that it was a carcinoma. The patient was then placed in the supine position to undergo mediastinoscopy with biopsy of the lesion, with the gantry set to fluoroscopic mode. Examination of a frozen section biopsy specimen confirmed an epidermoid carcinoma in the infracarinal lymph node. In view of the diagnosis of (stage N2) lung cancer, we proceeded to insert a catheter for chemotherapy, again with the gantry set to fluoroscopic mode.
The use of an HOR in the case described here allowed all procedures to be performed sequentially, in the same setting, without need for transportation. In addition, we would have the flexibility of adding pulmonary lobectomy if the pulmonary mass was positive for cancer and did not extend into the mediastinum. We were planning to use the gantry set to tomographic mode during mediastinoscopy in order to assist the intraoperative localization of the mediastinal lesion. However, the vertical size of the video mediastinoscope