A 72-year-old Korean woman presented to our emergency department with right upper limb hemiparesis without speech impairment. Her medical history was significant for hypertension, hyperlipidemia, and diabetes. She reported no previous history of cigarette smoking and alcohol drinking. On admission to the hospital, her right upper limb hemiparesis resolved rapidly and completely. The results of laboratory examinations, including complete blood count, serum electrolyte levels, and coagulation studies, were within normal limits, except for slight hypertriglyceridemia. An electrocardiogram showed a normal sinus rhythm, and a brain computed tomography scan appeared normal. Urgent magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the brain revealed no definite evidence of acute infarction. Neither significant steno-occlusive lesions nor cerebral aneurysms in the intra/extracranial vessels were demonstrated by magnetic resonance angiography (MRA). Transthoracic echocardiography (TTE) showed a well-defined echogenic mass in the LA with a broad-based attachment to the interatrial septum (). The LA was not enlarged, and left ventricular (LV) systolic function was normal, with an ejection fraction (EF) of 60%. Transesophageal echocardiography (TEE) confirmed the presence of a heterogeneous mobile mass (33×25 mm) with internal echo-free spaces, and color Doppler flow mapping showed flow signal within the mass suggesting hypervascularity (). The mass did not involve the heart valves directly, and Doppler echocardiography revealed no impairment of flow across the mitral valve. The diagnosis of an embolic transient ischemic attack (TIA) caused by a LA myxoma was made, and the ABCD2 score was 6. She was urgently referred for surgical intervention to prevent further embolic strokes.
A median sternotomy was performed and right atriotomy was created with a trans-septal approach. The LA mass was then excised en bloc for complete resection and the iatrogenic atrial septal defect was directly closed without using a patch. Histopathological examination confirmed a cardiac myxoma with a clear resection margin, and without an overlying thrombus. The postoperative course was uneventful and