An 8-year-old female presents to the pulmonary clinic for management of her persistent asthma. She was diagnosed with asthma at 4 years of age due to recurrent episodes of albuterol-responsive wheezing. In addition to her asthma history, she had 6 to 8 episodes of bronchitis treated with antibiotics every year, as well as 2 episodes of pneumonia and 1 diagnosis of sinusitis. At presentation, she had a chronic, wet daily cough that was worse in the morning, with exercise, and with smoke exposure.
Her past medical history was notable for failure to thrive, idiopathic short stature (actively being treated with growth hormone), allergic rhinitis, and mild persistent asthma with multiple respiratory infections as described above. History revealed daily cough with sputum production and shortness of breath with exercise. Physical examination showed a small for age child (height and weight both below the 3rd percentile) with coarse inspiratory crackles and wheeze throughout lung fields.
Based on her past medical history and abnormal lung exam, a cystic fibrosis workup was initiated. Spirometry was normal with forced expiratory volume in 1 second (FEV1) of 90.4% predicted. Chest radiography and sinus computed tomography (CT) were normal. However, chest CT demonstrated multifocal tree-in-bud opacities with associated diffuse bronchiectasis and ground glass opacities, suggestive of atypical infection, as well as a wedge-shaped process in the right middle lobe concerning for developing pneumonia (). She had 2 normal sweat chloride tests and normal cystic fibrosis transmembrane regulator gene sequence. Primary ciliary dyskinesia evaluation identified normal ciliary ultrastructure and a normal genetic screen. Immunologic evaluation supported normal immune status, with normal immunoglobulin levels, lymphocyte number and function, and appropriate response to vaccination. She underwent bronchoscopy, and bronchoalveloar lavage (BAL) resulted in a negative viral and fungal cultures, but grew Streptococcus pneumoniae and Mycobacterium abscessus from bacterial cultures. She was treated with amoxicillin and clavulanate for pneumococcal pneumonia. After 21 days of treatment, she