A 49-year-old Nigerian female presented to her local hospital with a 1-year history of recurrent chest infections. She had non-insulin dependent diabetes but no other significant past medical history. She took metformin twice daily and had no known drug allergies. She had no past surgical history and was a lifelong non-smoker. She had no relevant past family history of any genetic disorders, in addition to no recent foreign travel or contact exposure to tuberculosis. When she initially presented, plain chest radiographs were performed and demonstrated multiple lung lesions suggestive of an infective/inflammatory process. She grew pseudomonas on sputum culture, but despite treatment for atypical pneumonia with multiple courses of antibiotics, she failed to adequately improve. Chest CT was consequently performed and demonstrated multiple cavitating lung lesions (fig ). During this time, she had intermittent vomiting with an associated 15-kg weight loss over a 12-month period. These symptoms were initially attributed to her recurrent chest infections and were not further investigated.
The lung lesions were sampled and were found to be negative for tuberculosis. A working diagnosis of aspergillus infection was established, and the patient remained under the care of the respiratory physicians. At the time of chest CT, however, an incidental finding was noted in the second to the fourth part of the duodenum. Concurrently, she developed subacute bowel obstruction with persistent vomiting and was unable to tolerate oral intake. A dedicated CT scan of the abdomen and pelvis was therefore performed, demonstrating an obstructing polypoid mass at D2 (fig ).
This lesion was confirmed on upper gastrointestinal endoscopy, and a biopsy demonstrated a tubulovillous adenoma with high-grade dysplasia. Nasojejunal tube insertion was attempted at her local hospital; however, this failed to bypass the obstructing lesion. Her case was discussed at the regional hepatopancreaticobiliary multidisciplinary team meeting at the Royal London Hospital. As her biopsy demonstrated high-grade dysplasia, in addition to her symptomatic presentation, it was felt that a resection was required. Based