A 61-year-old Caucasian male with a past medical history significant for a remote history of Hodgkin's lymphoma status post splenectomy, pernicious anemia, type 2 diabetes, hypertension, hyperlipidemia, hypothyroidism, gastric carcinoid tumors, and morbid obesity (BMI 47) presented with an anomalous pancreatic mass on endoscopic ultrasound (EUS). The patient had a 20-pack-year smoking history, having quit 5 years prior to presentation. The patient's diabetes had some sequelae of chronic renal insufficiency (creatinine 1.6 mg/dl), microalbuminuria, and moderate peripheral neuropathy secondary to vitamin B12 deficiency in the past. His perioperative hemoglobin A1c level was 7.8%.
EUS was being performed for surveillance of the nodular mucosa in the gastric fundus, of which biopsies revealed changes characteristic of autoimmune metaplastic atrophic gastritis including micronodular neuroendocrine cell hyperplasia. This study revealed an 8 × 5 mm anechoic cystic lesion in the pancreatic tail. Endoscopic sonographic findings were a simple cyst without septa or debris in close proximity to the pancreatic duct.
MRI of the abdomen showed a focal duct cut-off near the junction of the pancreatic body and tail with associated mild pancreatic ductal dilatation. Fine needle aspiration of the lesion obtained via EUS revealed cellular smears with variably sized groups of cells with round nuclei and abundant cytoplasm (fig ). Immunohistochemistry showed the tumor cells had membrane reactivity for β-catenin but no nuclear reactivity. Chromogranin and synaptophysin were nonreactive. Ki-67 immunostaining showed a proliferation index of 5–10% (fig ). A diagnosis of acinar cell carcinoma of the pancreas was favored based on these findings.
The patient was deemed a suitable surgical candidate, and he underwent an attempted laparoscopic distal pancreatectomy. However, given his morbid obesity and intra-abdominal adhesions the procedure was converted from a laparoscopic to a bilateral subcostal incision. It was then possible to mobilize the pancreas easily. The lesion itself was not palpable; however, based on preoperative imaging, the lesion was known to