A 61-year-old male was admitted to our department complaining of pain and paresthesia in the left upper limb associated with massive swelling. He was a heavy smoker and had a past medical history remarkable for hypertension and bilateral polycystic kidney disease. The patient started hemodialysis in 2003 from a distal radiocephalic AVF on the left arm. After spontaneous fistula thrombosis 1 year later, a new radiocephalic AVF for hemodialysis was created on the right arm. In 2005, he received a successful cadaveric kidney transplant in the right iliac fossa and since then had been administered with immunosuppressive drugs (cyclosporine 20 mg and mycophenolate mofetil 2,000 mg daily) and corticosteroids (methylprednisolone 4 mg daily) to avoid renal rejection. The patient lamented a small swelling of the left arm persisting for 2 years, which in the last 4 months went through an important increase in size, associated with mild paresthetic symptoms.
The patient's past medical history was negative for injective drug abuse, upper-limb trauma, and brachial artery access for endovascular procedures.
On physical examination, he had a left arm circumference of 41 cm, compared to the contralateral arm of 26 cm, with a pulsing ovoid swelling on the medial aspect, 3 cm above the medial epicondyle at the level of the armpit (Fig ).
The mass resulted tight, pulsatile and incompressible, and painful on palpation along with mild distal edema. Bilaterally, the supraclavicular and axillary lymph nodes were not palpable. The right and left radial and ulnar pulses were both palpable. An ultrasound duplex scan of the left upper-limb arterial system revealed a giant true aneurysm of the brachial artery in presence of parietal thrombosis with turbulent flow seen along the vessel.
The patient underwent surgical treatment under general anesthesia. He was placed in the supine position with abducted left upper limb. An incision was made over the axilla, and the BAA was isolated with proximal and distal brachial artery control