A 56-year-old man complained of sensory symptoms (pins and needles sensation) and pain in both legs and the right arm, which progressively worsened in about 4 months. The patient had difficulty performing his daily work as a bus driver and noticed impaired foot sensation and arm weakness during changing gears and pressing the pedals. The symptoms worsened considerably 2 weeks before consulting a neurologist. The patient's past medical history was unremarkable except for hypertension and hypercholesterolemia, both treated with statins and oral antihypertensive drugs. He did not smoke and the family history was unremarkable.
Neurological examination showed generalized weakness in both lower limbs and the right arm (Medical Research Council grade 4) with hyperreflexia and bilateral plantar reflexes. No muscle wasting, atrophy, or fasciculations were observed. Sensory exam showed generalized sensation loss (involving both dorsal columns and the spinothalamic tract) and subjective pins and needles sensations in both feet and the right arm. Additional tests revealed mild urinary retention and decreased sensations in the sacral region.
Given the association of both lower and upper limb involvement and hyperreflexia, a cervical lesion was suspected. The patient underwent diagnostic brain and spinal cord MRI, which showed an elongated intramedullary hyperintensity from the foramen magnum to C4 on T2-weighted images (Fig ) with a small contrast enhancement at the junction between the brainstem and the cervical spinal cord. Brain MRI was unremarkable. Additional blood and cerebrospinal fluid laboratory investigations were also unremarkable (Table ). Transverse myelitis was suspected and the patient was treated with a high intravenous corticosteroid dose [, , , ].
Less than 2 h after the first corticosteroid dose, the symptoms worsened. The patient developed quadriplegia with severe generalized weakness and sensation loss in both legs and both arms, inspiratory muscle weakness, dysphonia, and high urinary retention. An allergic reaction was excluded and the patient was transferred to an intensive care unit for assisted breathing. A