A 50-year-old African-American male never-smoker with no significant past medical history presented to his physician with a chief complaint of a dry cough during the summer of 2015. He was treated with antibiotics, but the cough persisted.
In November 2015, a CT scan of the chest revealed a cavitary mass/infiltrate centered in the left lower lobe and left hilum. There was pathological lymphadenopathy in the mediastinum. The left pulmonary artery was narrowed by the left hilar mass with a positron emission tomography scan revealing intense activity in this region. Further evaluation revealed multifocal metastases, including bilateral supraclavicular lymph nodes, mediastinal lymph nodes, left lateral 8th rib, and left ischium osseous metastases. MRI of the brain demonstrated multiple small enhancing brain metastases.
A CT-guided lung biopsy revealed a poorly differentiated non-small-cell carcinoma with both adenocarcinoma and squamous cell carcinoma features. From the outside institution report, there was inadequate tissue sample for genomic testing.
The patient was treated with whole-brain radiation and a chemotherapy regimen consisting of cisplatin plus gemcitabine. Restaging scans in March 2016, after 3 cycles of cisplatin/gemcitabine, revealed progressive disease in the lungs. MRI of the brain demonstrated a decrease in all intracranial metastases.
In early March 2016, the patient was started on second-line treatment with the immunotherapeutic agent nivolumab, but subsequent evaluation revealed progression of the disease throughout the chest and new metastatic disease in the right adrenal gland. Positron emission tomography/CT documented multiple new bony metastatic lesions and innumerable metastatic nodules throughout the right lung. There was also a new hepatic lesion.
The patient presented to our institution in July 2016 for a second opinion. Due to significant respiratory distress, he was admitted to the hospital where his performance and respiratory status continued to decline significantly (fig ).
The patient had had a liquid biopsy (Foundation ACT®) ordered by his prior oncologist shortly before he came to our institution, which revealed