A 70-year-old female with past medical history of hypertension, gastroesophageal reflux disease, atrial fibrillation, and supraventricular tachycardia presented to her cardiologist’s office for a routine follow-up visit. In addition to these co-morbidities, she also had a previous history of smoking. Her home medications included 200 mg of labetalol twice daily, 5 mg of apixaban twice daily, and a combination pill of trimaterene 75 mg and hydrochlorothiazide 50 mg once daily. Routine transthoracic echocardiography was performed during her outpatient visit, which revealed the presence of a left atrial mass. The patient was subsequently referred for a contrast enhanced computed tomography (CT) scan to further visualize the mass. The scan revealed a well-circumscribed mass within the left atrial cavity. Differential diagnosis included atrial myxoma, other primary cardiac tumor or less likely, a thrombus.
The patient was subsequently hospitalized for further management. Cardiac magnetic resonance imaging was performed using a 3T scanner. Images were obtained before and after the administration of 40 mL of gadolinium contrast. These images revealed that the atrial mass was bilobulated and measured about 5.8×3.4×4.9 cm. The mass was also noted to have increased T2 signal with heterogeneous enhancement and cause obstruction of bilateral inferior pulmonary veins (). A collaborative decision was taken to proceed with the resection of the mass. Cardiac catheterization was performed prior to proceeding with the resection in order to determine the patient’s need for coronary artery bypass grafting. The procedure was performed using a radial artery access without any complications. No significant coronary artery disease was visualized. The patient underwent resection of the left atrial tumor two days later using cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) and cardioplegic arrest. An intraoperative transesophageal echocardiography performed prior to placing the patient on CPB revealed a 4×3.47 cm bilobed left atrial mass attached to the interatrial septum and posterior wall of the left atrium. A right atriotomy was used to expose and inc