A 56-year-old male presented status post assault with human bites to the tip of his nose, left ala, right ear and first digit of his left hand. He denied nasal obstruction and no facial fractures were associated. He denied of consciousness and reported no other trauma. Past medical history was significant for hypertension controlled with Lisinopril, diet and exercise. Patient denied tobacco and illicit drug use but reported occasional alcohol use. Physical exam revealed a well-developed, well-nourished adult Caucasian male in no acute distress. There was a 22 × 18 mm full thickness skin and subcutaneous tissue defect present on the nasal tip. The columella and left ala were similarly involved. The perichondrium and nasal cartilage remained intact and undamaged. Nasopharyngoscopy with a zero degree nasopharyngoscope revealed a slight right septal deviation without evidence of intranasal trauma, discharge or mucosal bleeding. Involvement of the patient's right auricular pinna was very superficial and treatment was deferred. No facial lacerations, bony abnormalities or palpatory tenderness was appreciated. Facial weakness and neurologic deficits were also no appreciated. Bilateral involvement of the hands and upper extremities also appeared very superficial and treatment was deferred.
Debridement of the nasal tip and adjacent structures was performed using standard sterile technique and local anesthesia. The defect measured 25 × 20 mm following debridement and the perichondrium and nasal cartilage was confirmed intact and without evidence of disease or injury. Dehydrated human amniotic membrane was fashioned to the dimensions of the defect and affixed to the wound. The allograft did not overly the native integument. Suture fixation was deferred. Sterile wet to dry dressing was applied and the patient was instructed to avoid recurrent trauma to, and washing of, the graft site. The patient was instructed to maintain a wet to dry dressing over the graft site at all times and to avoid displacement of the amniotic graft during dressing changes. Total