This case report is of a 34-year old man who was married, Catholic, and a construction worker. He had primary school education with no history of previous hospitalizations, surgeries, transfusions, allergies, or known pathologies. He referred only to head trauma suffered 8 months ago by way of physical assault. The assault caused a nose-bone fracture with a nasal septum deviation to the right, but with neither purulent material nor a rinusinusal infectious process. He had only mild, intermittent, and sporadic obstructive dyspnea after the incident. The patient smoked 20 cigarettes a day for 21 years, from 13 to 34 years of age. Up to 5 months prior to his admission, he also suffered from alcoholism for 11 years, drinking 1000 ml of alcohol every week.
He was admitted to the hospital with an occipital headache which he had endured for 2 months. For over 1 and a half months, he had also experienced behavioral disorders and a disruption of higher mental functions. He had retrograde and anterograde amnesia with both echolalia and the presence of visual hallucinations. A private physician initially treated him with diazepam, pentoxifylline, diclofenac, and phenytoin, all with standard doses but with no improvement. Three weeks prior to admission, the patient experienced acalculia and multiple apraxia that did not allow the patient to perform ordinary work and other daily activities such as bathing, and dressing. At this point, the patient required the support of a family member. The individual was evaluated by a second physician who prescribed amitriptyline, bromazepam, B complex, and additional phenytoin. Five days later, the patient developed ataxic gait and was evaluated at a regional hospital where he was given treatment for poisoning (benzodiazepines with flumazenil and a gastric lavage with activated carbon). One week prior to admission, the man quickly and progressively lost the ability to hold himself up. He suffered from psychomotor agitation and myoclonic movements. The patient had a spastic tonicity of his