A 58-year-old male patient was referred to the oral and maxillofacial surgery department of our institution for the treatment of a slowly growing swelling on the right side of the mouth floor that had been present for 1 month. He had slight dull pain during eating and speaking. The patient stated that the size of the mass changed several times a day. He had a history of smoking and alcohol consumption for more than 30 years. No other specific medical problems were detected, and he had no history of traumatic injury, invasive surgery, bleeding, or discharge. He had no familial history of cancer.
Intraoral examination showed that the mass (approximately 3 cm in length and 2 cm in width) was covered with intact mucosa without ulceration. The adjacent teeth and gingiva showed no abnormalities (). In a dental panoramic view, only chronic periodontitis and several retained dental roots were found. No bony irregularities or sialoliths were found ().
Contrast-enhanced CT revealed dilatation of the right submandibular gland duct () and a few focal cystic densities in the right sublingual space (). No bony destruction of the mandible or submandibular stones were detected.
Axially sectioned T1-weighted MRI showed a multilocular cystic mass with heterogeneous intensity and marked peripheral enhancement in the right sublingual space (). The lesion extended to the mandibular midline anteriorly and to the molar teeth posteriorly. The mass compressed the sublingual gland laterally. The lesion was located superior to the mylohyoid muscle on coronally sectioned T1-weighted MRI (). Axially sectioned T2-weighted MRI showed a well-defined isointense signal in two-thirds of the anterior part of the mass and heterogeneous intensity in one-third of the posterior part (the remaining third) of the mass (). Coronally sectioned T2-weighted MRI showed the mass to be surrounded by a hypointense signal, which was suspected to represent a fibrous capsule surrounding the mass (). The approximate size of the lesion was 2