A 68-year-old male presented to the oral oncology outpatient department with a swelling over the right side of the mandible of one month's duration. A comprehensive history was taken, and the patient revealed a history of extraction of multiple teeth on the same side, after which the swelling started insidiously. It was soon accompanied by intermittent episodes of pain, which was of a pricking nature and radiated upwards along the jaw and to the ear on the same side. The patient was prescribed analgesics and anti-inflammatory medications, which provided temporary pain relief but there was no decrease in the swelling. The patient also complained of excessive salivation for two weeks. The patient had a habit of smoking 10 - 15 cigarettes a day for more than 25 years with occasional alcohol consumption. There was a negative history of chewing tobacco in any form.
Clinical examination revealed a bony hard swelling of the right side of the mandible, approximately 5 x 4 cm in maximum dimension, extending from the angle of the mandible to 2 cm short of the midline. The swelling was tender on palpation, with defined edges, and was fixed over the bone. No crackling or crepitus was elicited and the overlying skin was unremarkable. However, paraesthesia of the skin over the ipsilateral chin and lower lip was elicited.
On intraoral examination, no abnormality of the oral mucosa was detected and the patient was edentulous. Tenderness was elicited on palpating the alveolar mucosa on the right side, up to the retromolar region. The neck was palpated; however, no significant cervical nodes were found. An orthopantomogram was taken which showed a large radiolucency with irregular borders extending from the lower right canine region to the right angle of the mandible (Figure ).
Clinical findings and previous biopsy reports were correlated and the diagnosis was inconclusive. The lesion was provisionally diagnosed as an intraosseous malignancy of the mandible. The oral pathologist suggested an excisional biopsy for confirmation of the lesion