A 67-year-old Caucasian male presented to the Oral Medicine Clinic of the School of Dental Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, with a history of pain in the left preauricular and facial regions and headaches for 1 year. He also reported progressive trismus that had lasted for 4 months. He denied any form of trauma associated with the onset of facial pain. His pain was described as persistent dull aching pain aggravated with jaw function, especially talking and mastication. He obtained minimal relief by taking 600-mg Ibuprofen tablets.
The patient did not report any parafunctional habits or previous episodes of jaw lock, despite occasional nontender bilateral clicking of the TMJs. He had not experienced any previous facial numbness or tingling sensations, but had noticed increasing difficulty putting food in his mouth due to the limited opening of the mouth. This resulted in severe weight loss of 6 pounds within a 4-week period. He had recently changed to a liquid protein supplement diet at the time of presentation. Additionally, the patient also reported sinus problems and recurring ear infections of 3 months' duration, with occasional bloodstained mucous discharge from the nose.
Interestingly, the patient had presented to his general dentist at the onset of his facial pain. It was attributed at that time to inflammation around the left maxillary third molar. After the tooth was extracted, he experienced pain relief for only 2 weeks. He was then referred to an otorhinolaryngologist due to the persistent ear pain. Based on a positive bacterial culture, he was treated with antibiotics, but the pain relief only lasted for 3 weeks. The patient's past medical history was positive for paranoid schizophrenia and bipolar disorder, managed by his primary care physician with risperidone. He had smoked at least a pack of cigarettes daily for 40 years. His review of systems was positive for occasional epistaxis and weight loss, but his vital signs were within the normal limits.