A 38-year-old male patient with a 40-pack-year history of smoking initially presented with sudden-onset right-sided facial nerve palsy which was diagnosed as idiopathic Bell's palsy and was treated with prednisolone. Three weeks later, the patient developed a new left-sided facial palsy in addition to his unrecovered right-sided facial palsy. The patient denied any systemic symptoms except for a mild headache. His physical examination showed bilateral lower motor neuron facial nerve palsy. Outside of the facial nerve paralysis, he was neurologically intact, and his physical examination revealed no abnormalities. Further workup was carried out to rule out autoimmune, metabolic, infectious, and vasculitic causes and revealed no abnormality. A chest X-ray showed a right upper lobe opacity which prompted a computed tomography (CT) scan of the chest which showed a well-defined, suspected soft-tissue lesion in the right upper lobe with extensive hilar and ipsilateral mediastinal lymphadenopathy (Fig ).
At this point, the differential diagnosis included sarcoidosis and primary lung cancer given the presenting complaint was bilateral facial nerve paralysis. Because the intrapulmonary lesion was too distal to be reached by flexible bronchoscopy, video-assisted mediastinoscopy was performed and revealed gross right-sided mediastinal invasion. Multiple biopsies from lymph nodes were taken and revealed metastatic poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma of the lung. Accordingly, positron emission tomography (PET)/CT and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the brain were performed to stage the cancer. Brain MRI with contrast showed normal enhancement of the seventh and eighth cranial nerves with neither brain metastasis nor leptomeningeal metastasis. The PET/CT showed a metabolically active right upper lobe lesion with extension into the mediastinum and active ipsilateral mediastinal lymph nodes but no distant metastasis. Due to our high clinical suspicion of leptomeningeal involvement, a lumbar puncture was performed. Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) cultures and cytology were all negative. Additionally, a paraneoplastic panel in his serum and CSF was negative as well. At this point