An 83-years-old woman was admitted to the emergency department of our institution for the appearance of symptoms such as dysphonia, dysphagia and severe orthopnea. The patient was a heavy smoker (more than 20/day).
The findings on physical examination were indicative for obstructive goiter with compression on the inferior mediastinal structures. The biochemical and serological analysis were in the normal range. Further evaluation with a computed tomography (CT) scan showed a solid heterogeneous lesion 7×8 cm extending to the retrosternal region, with right deviation of the laryngo-tracheal axis. In the context of the lesion a hypodense area with wall calcification was present. The CT scan was performed without contrast because the patient hypersensitivity. Considering the severe dysphagia and orthopnea the patient was immediately referred to surgery without a preoperative cytological evaluation of the thyroid condition. After surgery the patient was admitted to the Intensive Care Unit because of respiratory problems and tracheostomy was necessary. On gross examination of resected specimen, the thyroid gland was enlarged measuring 8×8×6 cm and was firm and fibrotic in consistency. Sectioned surface showed round, white-yellowish confluent areas that involved and replaced the entire parenchyma. No normal residual thyroid parenchyma was macroscopically identified. Thyroid capsule was largely infiltrated (). Finally a careful sampling of the organ was performed for the final histological evaluation.
Histology showed a well-differentiated thyroid cancer with a diffuse follicular growth pattern, mainly constituted by micro-follicles containing a small amount of colloid, organized in confluent nodules of small to medium size with dense collagenous septa without a detectable tumor capsule. A careful observation of all histological sections showed many images of vascular invasion at the periphery of the tumor () and revealed only few spot of necrosis and very rare mitotic figures. No psammoma bodies were found. Cytologically, the nuclei were sometimes enlarged, with typical PTC features consisting of grooves, overlapping and clearing. Occasionally, nuclear pseudoinclusions were also detected although