A 54-year-old gentleman with 30 pack year history of smoking, chronic constipation and symptoms of irritable bowel syndrome presented to an outside hospital emergency department (ED) with 5 days of lower abdominal pain and cramping. The pain was initially very mild in nature, but suddenly became severe a few days after onset. The pain then subsided, but did not completely resolve.
In the ED, heart rate was normal. He was afebrile with normal white blood cell count and C-reactive protein level. On examination, there was no evidence of peritonitis. Computed tomography (CT) of the abdomen pelvis demonstrated findings concerning for colonic perforation; there was a small amount of free intraperitoneal air scattered throughout the abdomen and pelvis and prominent cystic pneumatosis coli of the sigmoid colon (Fig. ). The etiology was indeterminate. He was admitted and managed conservatively with intravenous (IV) antibiotics. His symptoms improved, and he was discharged home on hospital Day 4.
He presented to our clinic 2 days after discharge for further work-up complaining of persistent mild symptoms of abdominal pain. Flexible sigmoidoscopy was performed showing approximately a 7 cm segment of sigmoid colon with numerous polypoid appearing lesions with grossly normal appearing overlying mucosa (Fig. ). These lesions were biopsied with pathology revealing hyperplastic changes without dysplasia. Notably, his last colonoscopy was approximately 10 months ago which demonstrated tubular adenomas, one in the descending colon and the other in the rectum.
Given his symptoms persisted, he was taken to the operating room electively for additional evaluation and potential therapeutic intervention. Intraoperatively, the sigmoid colon was notably redundant with a narrow mesenteric stalk. There were findings of chronic non-obstructing sigmoid volvulus with a twisted and inflamed sigmoid mesentery. No evidence of gross perforation was identified. Extensive PCI of the sigmoid colon was apparent externally and upon opening of the specimen on the back table (Fig. ). Laparoscopic sigmoid colectomy with end-to-end colorectal anastomosis was