A 63-year-old African American man was transferred to the neurological intensive care unit from a nearby hospital after presenting with an acute history of multiple falls. Earlier that day, he had fallen once while walking to the bathroom from his bed and had fallen again shortly thereafter while walking through his living room. The patient's family decided at that time to bring him to the nearby hospital for treatment. At that hospital, no focal findings were discovered, but his blood pressure was noted to be elevated at 272/139 mm Hg. At that point, the original hospital placed the patient on a nicardipine drip to treat his hypertension and transferred the patient to our medical center, where he arrived late that night.
The patient presented to the medical center complaining of dizziness and agonizing headache. He was also noted to be somnolent and experiencing some dysarthria. The family at the bedside reported that the patient's past medical history was significant for hypertension, diabetes mellitus type II, and hyperlipidemia. It was also determined that the patient was a former chronic smoker, did not consume alcohol, and used marijuana occasionally. Physical exam showed some lethargy, dysarthria, right gaze paresis and nystagmus, vertical gaze weakness, and dysmetria on the right side more so than on the left. There was no hemiparesis, and visual fields were normal to confrontation. The patient had 5/5 strength, intact sensation, and 2+ reflexes of the upper and lower extremities bilaterally. It was determined that the patient had 4 points on both the NIH Stroke Scale and the Modified Rankin Scale for Neurologic Disability at admission. Computed tomography (CT) of the head and neck revealed decreased attenuation throughout most of the cerebellar hemispheres suggestive of ischemic injury (Fig ), diminished caliber of the fourth ventricle indicating increased pressure, and an old watershed infarct on the right side between the territories of the middle cerebral artery and the posterior cerebral artery (PCA). The area