A 38-year-old woman with a medical history of hypertension, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, osteoarthritis of knees, chronic smoker, and cocaine abuser presented to the emergency department with complaints of painful body rash which appeared within some hours after smoking cocaine. The rash first appeared on her right arm, followed by rash on the right thigh, left thigh, and left arm. This rash was associated with a burning pain, ten out of ten in intensity without radiation and mostly located on her right arm and right thigh. There was no skin peeling or purulent discharge noted. She denied having any oral or genital mucosal ulcer. She denied any physical injury, fall, pruritus, gastrointestinal symptoms, genitourinary symptoms, fever, chills, chest pain, dyspnea, headache, blurring of vision, dizziness or urinary symptoms. She denied any other systemic complaint. Her home medications include amlodipine, albuterol inhaler as needed, and acetaminophen as needed. She has never been prescribed any anticoagulant including warfarin.
Although she has been smoking cocaine for more than 20 years, the first episode of skin rash post cocaine use did not occur until 3 years ago. At that time, the rash also occurred on bilateral legs and she was admitted to a local hospital. She underwent skin biopsy and it revealed vasculitis with fibrin-platelet thrombi consistent with levamisole-induced vasculitis. She was counseled to stop using cocaine and was treated with intravenous steroid followed by tapered dose of prednisone. The next episode of similar rash lesions of bilateral legs developed in 2014 after smoking cocaine and she again responded to steroids treatment. Six days prior admission to our hospital, she used a larger amount of cocaine than usual (200 dollar-worth). She denied any allergy to cold weather, food, or medications.
Initial vital signs included a temperature of 98°F, pulse rate 98 beats/min, respiratory rate 18 breaths/min, blood pressure 105/72 mmHg, and oxygen saturation 97% on