A 77-year-old female of Sri Lankan origin living in New Zealand for past 21 years presented after an incidental finding of a 23 mm left lingular lesion. The lesion was first identified on a routine plain chest radiograph (following a hospital attendance with headache) and further delineated by computed tomography (CT) scanning. It was described as peripheral lesion with nodular appearance, with contact of the visceral pleura. The lesion appeared to have increased in size in comparative plain radiographs taken eight weeks apart. There was no interval cross-sectional imaging to confirm the subjective enlargement.
There were no respiratory symptoms of note, and no history was obtained of prior significant respiratory illness. Past medical history was notable for type 2 diabetes and treated hypertension. The patient had been a lifelong non-smoker, although her husband had been a heavy smoker and had died of lung cancer 10 year prior. There was no significant occupational exposure.
In view of radiological suspicion of pulmonary malignancy, a CT-guided fine needle aspiration was done. This showed mildly atypical cells and no definite diagnosis was possible on the degree of atypia. A positron emission tomography (PET) CT demonstrated a 17-mm lingular sub-pleural nodule abutting and distorting the major fissure without clear evidence of transgression. The nodule demonstrated minimal PET avidity (maximum standardized uptake value of 2.4) but no signs of nodal involvement or distant disease (Fig. ).
Routine laboratory testing was unremarkable, including a normal full blood count with normal white cell differential (eosinophil count of 0.1 × 109), and a normal C-reactive protein. No serum immunoglobulin E level was done.
The case was discussed at multidisciplinary meeting and it was agreed that possibility of pulmonary malignancy could not be excluded, with a concern of the lesion being very close to the visceral pleura. She was hence put forward for surgical excision of the lesion. Wedge resection was undertaken with intra-operative frozen