A 56-year-old female smoker had a history of a pleomorphic adenoma in the left parotid gland treated with a superficial parotidectomy at the age of 18. Nineteen years following that surgery, the patient presented with multifocal recurrence. Surgical exploration was undertaken and the tumor was found inseparable from the facial nerve. At that time, the resection was abandoned and the facial nerve was not sacrificed and gross disease was left in the parotid bed. The patient underwent external beam radiation therapy and the size of the tumor remained stable for 10 years on serial computed tomography (CT) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) monitoring. The patient had been clinically asymptomatic until she started developing intermittent ipsilateral hemifacial spasms occurring spontaneously and involving all portions of the left facial musculature, which prompted her to return for evaluation.
Repeat CT scan showed enlargement of avidly and uniformly enhancing solid tumor without areas of necrosis or extracapsular extension with extension into the left stylomastoid foramen, along with suspicious changes in enlarged (15 mm) left level IV lymph node (Figure ). Fine-needle aspiration biopsy of the tumor was suspicious for carcinoma ex pleomorphic adenoma. After a negative systemic metastatic work-up, the patient was brought to the operating room for a radical parotidectomy with facial nerve sacrifice, ipsilateral selective neck dissection (levels I-IV), and a de-epithelialized anterolateral thigh free flap for volume restoration and to enhance wound healing. The vertical segment of the facial nerve in the mastoid was exposed. Primary facial nerve repair was performed using sural nerve grafting from the main trunk to the temporal branch of the facial nerve, nerve to masseter grafting to the dominant midfacial branches of the facial nerve, together with construction of an oral commissure suspension with a fascia lata sling.
Final surgical pathology confirmed a 5.2 cm pleomorphic adenoma with a multinodular growth pattern. Well-circumscribed neoplastic nodules of variable sizes were embedded in densely fibrotic connective tissue (Figure ).