In December 2017, a 57 year-old male was referred to the Oral Medicine Department of Dental Faculty of Babol University of Medical Sciences. The chief complaint was a massive and rapidly growing swelling in his left maxillary alveolar ridge after tooth extraction a month before. The lesion was a sessile exophytic mass with lobular surface which was erythematous in some areas. He also complained from spontaneous bleeding and tenderness. The whole lesion measurements were approximately 5cm x 5cm. The involved teeth including left maxillary canine and lateral incisor had mobility grade III ().
Based on his own statements, the patient was considered as a heavy smoker who had been smoking for a long time and reported a history of having a lung malignancy since December 2016. A complete evaluation of his medical history was performed by exploring the documents of his previous hospitalization. First, after consulting with a lung specialist, a core needle biopsy from right lung mass was done and microscopic examination of sections revealed harboring neoplastic proliferation of epithelial cells with sheet and alveolar pattern. Neoplastic cells had large hyperchromatic nuclei, clear to granular eosinophilic cytoplasm and prominent nucleoli. Inflammatory cell infiltration and multifocal necrosis were observed (). Immunohistochemistry showed strong positive reaction to CK7 and there was no response to CK20, TTF1 and CDX2. The pathologist determined it as non-small-cell carcinoma, probably TTF1 negative lung carcinoma.
No remarkable finding was shown by brain MRI taken in January 2017. Whole body bone scan was performed which showed abnormal increased uptake in the right first rib. The scan pattern suggested either a lung tumoral mass with the involvement of the first rib or radiotracer uptake by the soft tissue tumoral mass only (without bone involvement), therefore CT scan was recommended. The rest of skeleton was unremarkable. In February 2017, spiral CT of chest without contrast showed a mass lesion with ill-defined margins in the right lung apex with a maximum diameter of 62x30 millimeters in favor of a malignant process. Diffuse bilateral patchy