A 43-year-old female patient presented to the gastroenterology clinic with complaints of rectal bleeding and constipation. She reported episodes of bloody stools cyclically coinciding with her menstrual periods with burning rectal pain, and she also reported long standing constipation for many years for which she has been taking laxatives. She also had lower abdominal pain, colicky in nature, improved with mucoid bowel movement, and associated with a sensation of incomplete evacuation and abdominal bloating. She denied fever, diarrhea, joint pains or skin rash. She denied any nausea, vomiting, loss of appetite and weight loss at the time of initial presentation.
Her medical history was negative for any chronic medical conditions. She did not undergo any surgical procedures in the past. There were no gastrointestinal malignancies diagnosed in her immediate or distant family members. She never used tobacco products, alcohol or recreational drugs. She was not allergic to any medications.
On initial evaluation, her vital signs were within normal limits. Abdomen was non-distended, soft and non-tender to palpation. On auscultation, bowel sounds were noted to be normoactive. Rectal examination was unremarkable. Cardiorespiratory and neurological examination was within normal limits.
She underwent flexible colonoscopy under monitored anesthesia care. Examination revealed an 8 - 10 cm area of erythematous, congested and granular mucosa in the sigmoid colon (). Random biopsies done showed colonic mucosa with focal erosion and mild chronic inflammation. The area was tattooed for future reference. Also, noted during colonoscopy was non-bleeding hemorrhoid. In the interim patient continued to be symptomatic.
While pursuing surgical consultation for the management of hemorrhoids, we decided to repeat a flexible colonoscopy with tissue sampling in view of her cyclical symptoms and initial colonoscopy findings. On repeat examination, the area was injected and raised using 5 mL of saline to create a fluid bed that separated the tissue layers from underlying muscle layer. Deeper tissue samples