A 25-year-old Samoan man who had lived in Australia and New Zealand was referred to the emergency department with a persistent cough and an abnormal chest X-ray. He had been diagnosed with asthma as a teenager with his main symptoms being exertional dyspnoea, a productive cough, and chronic sinusitis. He had been started on inhaled corticosteroids and bronchodilators with no improvement in his symptoms. The patient had no previous respiratory function tests or chest imaging. In the previous 2 months he had a persistent cough, producing half a cup of green-yellow sputum per day and worsening exertional dyspnoea. He reported subjective fevers and 5 kg weight loss in the previous 3 months but no night sweats.
The patient was a lifelong non-smoker and worked in a mattress factory. He had lived in Australia for the last 10 years and prior to that in New Zealand. He was of Samoan heritage with no known East Asian ancestry. He had no known exposure to tuberculosis and no risk factors for immunosuppression.
On initial assessment of the patient, he appeared well with oxygen saturations of 99% on room air. The significant clinical examination findings were coarse crackles predominantly at the bases with no wheeze. He was systemically well and there was no evidence of right heart failure. His initial chest X-ray showed a bilateral nodular interstitial infiltrate involving the mid and lower zones. He underwent a high resolution computed tomography (HRCT) which showed extensive tree-in-bud changes within all lobes, but particularly the lower lobes where there was also bronchial wall thickening and evidence of early bronchiectasis (Fig. ). Respiratory function tests showed fixed moderately severe airflow obstruction (Table ). Sputum samples and bronchial washings were sent for microbiology. Haemophilus influenzae was isolated and mycobacterium cultures were negative. An autoimmune screen was negative. The patient then underwent a bronchoscopy and transbronchial biopsy. Histopathology showed chronic inflammatory infiltration of the lung intersti