A 58-year-old woman was admitted one year ago to the neurointensive care unit of our hospital for sudden onset of intracerebral and subarachnoid hemorrhage of the right frontal lobe. She had a history of tobacco use and moderate alcohol abuse, hypertension and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. Her surgical history included left lumpectomy for breast cancer, amputation of the third finger on the right hand and jaw surgery a few years ago. At admission her vital signs were within the normal range: blood pressure 140/87 mmHg, heart rate 71 beats per minute (bpm), respiratory rate 20 breaths per minute and oxygen saturation on ventilator 100%. She was awake and alert but lethargic. The electrocardiogram (ECG) at admission showed normal sinus rhythm (60 bpm) and possible septal necrosis. Right craniotomy for evacuation of the hemorrhage and clipping of right middle cerebral artery aneurysm were performed. Postoperatively, her neurological functions were intact. Troponin I levels showed a slight increase from 0.33 to 3.55 ng/mL during the first two days, and then decreased to 1.96 ng/mL on the third day postsurgery, and similar variations were seen for the levels of creatine kinase-MB fraction (from 4.0 to 11.5 to 4.3 μmol/L). ECG on the second day showed deep negative T waves in almost all leads with prolonged QTc interval []. Due to abnormal myocardial necrosis markers and ECG, a two-dimensional (2D) transthoracic echocardiogram was ordered, and revealed a normal left ventricular cavity size with hyperdynamic basal motion, akinesis of midventricular segments and nearly normal apical motion []. Left ventricular global systolic function was moderately decreased with left ventricular ejection fraction at 35% (normal values >55%). Clinical and echocardiographic features were consistent with stress-induced cardiomyopathy.
The next day, the patient underwent coronary angiography, which ruled out any coronary artery disease. However, the ventriculogram surprisingly revealed an aneurysmatic anterior wall [], which then was characterized by another