A 67-year-old Japanese woman was admitted to our hospital because of a multilocular cystic lesion measuring 10 mm at the pancreatic body, which had been detected by abdominal ultrasonography during a routine medical examination. She had no significant medical history and no significant family history, including of von Hippel-Lindau (VHL) disease. She did not smoke or drink alcohol. She had no symptoms, and physical examination revealed no abnormal findings.
Abdominal contrast-enhanced computed tomography revealed a multilocular cystic lesion measuring 10 mm at the pancreatic body, the wall of which had no solid component, enhanced with contrast media. Magnetic resonance pancreatography (MRP) showed stenosis of the main pancreatic duct at the pancreatic body and dilatation of the distal side of the main pancreatic duct (Fig. ). Furthermore, communication between the cystic lesion and the main pancreatic duct was suspected based on the MRP findings. Endoscopic retrograde pancreatography (ERP) showed stenosis of the main pancreatic duct at the pancreatic body and dilatation of the distal side of the main or branch pancreatic ducts (Fig. 1). The stenosis of the main pancreatic duct was distant from the cystic lesion. ERP could not prove a communication between the main pancreatic duct and the cystic lesion. Endoscopic ultrasonography showed a multilocular cystic lesion with septal structures at the pancreatic body, whereas an intramural nodule or mass shadow was not found (Fig. 1). Consequently, distal pancreatectomy was performed under the preoperative diagnosis of IPMN with invasion.
Macroscopically, there were multiple cystic lesions measuring 10 mm in diameter in the pancreatic body. Histologically, the cystic lesions were lined with a cuboidal or flat epithelium with small round nuclei and clear cytoplasm. The cystic lesion was diagnosed as an SCN. The stenotic main pancreatic duct and branch ducts around the stenotic main pancreatic duct were lined by a low-papillary epithelium with enlarged nuclei and nuclear pseudo-stratification. There was no invasion. These lesions were diagnosed as high-grade PanIN (P