A 62-year-old male patient presented with the chief complaints of swelling on the left side of face and neck region for 2 months, which was of sudden onset. Swelling started as a discomfort on the left side of the neck followed by the appearance of swelling, which gradually increased in size and associated pain for 1 month. Had multiple medical consultations and multiple courses of antibiotics and a course of antifilarial over the past 1 month, with no reduction in symptoms. There were no other associated signs or symptoms.
He was under medication for hypothyroidism and diabetes mellitus. History of filariasis 10 years back followed by 3–4 episodes of lymphadenitis and had antifilarial therapy during these episodes. He was a cigarette smoker for 20 years, smoking two cigarettes per day which he quit 3 years back.
Extraoral examination revealed facial asymmetry of the left side. Multiple lymph nodes were palpable, including left submandibular and level II cervical lymph node with the largest one measuring approximately 4 cm × 5 cm in size. Lymph nodes were non-tender, firm in consistency, mobile, and some were matted together. Skin over the lymph nodes appeared normal without any signs of inflammation or infection. Patient consent was obtained for taking photograph and using it for study and publication purposes [Figure and ].
Intraoral examination revealed poor oral hygiene with the presence of local factors and signs of periodontitis. On hard tissue examination, tooth number 36 had a crown with tenderness on vertical percussion. Thus by history and clinical examination, a differential diagnosis of cervical lymphadenopathy due to locoregional infection, filariasis, tuberculosis, NHL was given. Patient advised to discontinue all antibiotics and antifilarial drugs.
Panoramic radiograph revealed generalized horizontal bone loss and endodontically treated 36 with crown and periapical bone density []. Posterior-anterior chest radiograph was noncontributory []. All hematological investigations were within the normal limit except for lactate dehydrogenase (307.8 U