A 37-year-old gravida 4 woman underwent laparoscopic radical hysterectomy with pelvic and paraaortic lymph node resection for cervical cancer Ib2. The body mass index of patient was 22.3 kg/m2, and she had no medical history of vascular disease, hypertension and diabetes mellitus. The patient had smoked a half of pack per day for 15 years. She was placed in the lithotomy position during operation, and the intermittent pneumatic compression device was placed on the lower extremities. The operation lasted 6 hours 45 minutes under general anesthesia. The patients' vital sign was stable throughout the operation. The estimated blood loss was 300 mL and hemoglobin level was 13.2 g/dL at the beginning of the operation and 11.8 g/dL postoperatively. During operation, there was no specific finding. In the recovery room after surgery, the patient complained of pain, tenderness, and numbness in left lower leg, and the numeric rating scale for pain was 9 points. However, pulsation of the dorsal arteries of the feet was confirmed. Then computed tomography venography for evaluation of deep vein thrombosis was performed, and revealed low attenuation and suggested decreased perfusion in left calf muscle. However, there was no evidence of deep vein thrombosis in both legs (). Then using the analgesics such as non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, pethidine and patient controlled analgesia, the numeric rating scale was reduced from 9 to 2 points. The patient was admitted to the intensive care unit for closed observation without any procedure. On the first postoperative day, left lower leg pain was persistent. Computed tomography angiography for evaluation of lower extremity thromboembolism was performed. Computed tomography angiography revealed thrombotic total occlusion at mid to distal left external iliac artery (); and serum creatine phosphokinase value was elevated up to 9,844 U/L (normal range, 43 to 165 U/L). Immediate thrombectomy was conducted by the radiologist in the angiographic intervention room. Post-thrombectomy angiography confirmed that the occlusion in external iliac