An 18-year-old woman with T2N0M0 laryngeal cancer was admitted in October 2008 to receive radical radiotherapy. The patient reported an increasing hoarseness lasting for five months. She negated alcohol or tobacco use, laryngeal papillomatosis, and prior neck radiotherapy. Laryngoscopic examination revealed a lesion involving the left true vocal cord, left laryngeal pocket, and posterior part of the ventricle false cord. Biopsy of the lesion revealed moderately differentiated squamous cell carcinoma of the larynx (). CT demonstrated thickening of 8 mm of the left false vocal cord, shallowing the left laryngeal ventricle, and infiltration extending to the upper part of the vocal cord and small (up to 5 mm in the greatest diameter) unspecific lymph nodes of the neck. Staging work-up, including chest CT and ultrasound examination of the neck and abdomen, was negative for metastases. The patient was referred to radical radiotherapy with four lateral 6 MEV photon beams (5.5 cm × 7.5 cm) to the total dose of 66 Gy in 33 fractions. She started treatment two weeks after the diagnosis. Another laryngeal examination, performed on the first day of radiotherapy, showed previously absent infiltration of the anterior commissure and subglottis. Owing to these findings, after delivering 6 Gy, the lower radiation fields were extended by 0.5 cm. Additional CT, performed for radiotherapy modification revealed previously absent, enlarged, left-sided cervical lymph nodes of the second group, outside the irradiated region. An ultrasound of this region showed enlarged lymph nodes with a central hyperechoic area. The biggest lymph node was 2.5 cm in diameter and was localised at the left mandibular angle. Radiotherapy was resumed after a three-day pause. The patient refused fine-needle aspiration biopsy of the neck lymph node. PET-CT performed without interrupting radiotherapy revealed metabolically active lesions in the larynx and in the left cervical lymph nodes at the level of the third cervical vertebra (SUV of 3.8 and 2