A 70-year-old man smoker with a previous history of a transient ischemic attack, was referred to the emergency department of our hospital because of a pain to the left shoulder and arm that had started 4 d ago and was unresponsive to analgesics.
Upon admission, the electrocardiogram showed anteroseptal ST elevation myocardial infarction (Figure ) and transthoracic echocardiography revealed left ventricular hypertrophy, that was more pronounced at the interventricular septum, compatible with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. Additional findings were an apical aneurysm, and moderate attenuation of systolic function. High sensitivity troponin I was elevated to 11037 ng/L. The patient was transferred to the coronary care unit and the next day coronary angiography revealed left anterior descending artery occlusion at the mid-level (Figure ). Subsequently, he was submitted to balloon angioplasty with placement of a drug-eluting stent (Resolute Integrity, 3 mm × 18 mm, Figure ). The patient remained asymptomatic and was discharged under optimal medical treatment including aspirin, clopidogrel, simvastatin, metoprolol, furosemide, lisinopril and eplerenone.
Four days later and about 20 min after taking his evening medication that was metoprolol and simvastatin and during ingestion of Greek rice pudding made of sheep milk, rice and sugar, the patient started gradually to develop lip swelling and itching followed by erythematous rash in all over his body. Within, approximately, 15 min he complained of chest pain and discomfort spreading to the left shoulder and arm. He was immediately transferred to the emergency department of our hospital. On arrival, the patient was covered in all his body with rash accompanied by itching and angioedema of the lips. The electrocardiogram showed ST elevation in V1-V4 leads (Figure ). Hydrocortisone and dimetindene maleate was given intravenously together with oral desloratadine and he was transferred to the catheterization laboratory, where coronary angiography revealed stent thrombosis with left anterior descending coronary artery occlusion (Figure ). The patient underwent thrombus aspiration that