A 48 year-old female never-smoker initially noticed some shortness of breath and increased work of breathing in the autumn of 2013. She was evaluated at her nearby Emergency Department in early November of 2013 and treated for an upper respiratory infection and asthma exacerbation with azithromycin and a short course of prednisone. Her symptoms persisted until January of 2014 when computed tomography (CT) of the chest was unremarkable. At this time she also had associated hemoptysis and stridor. Upon evaluation by pulmonology, her symptoms were felt to be more consistent with vocal cord dysfunction as opposed to lung pathology. On January 29, 2014, she presented with acute respiratory distress and otolaryngology was consulted. A flexible laryngoscopy demonstrated a friable appearing erythematous mass inferior to the level of the true vocal cords at the posterior commissure. CT of the neck showed a mass in the left cricoid cartilage with invasion into the surrounding strap musculature (). Tracheostomy was performed simultaneously with biopsy of the mass; pathology revealed high grade osteosarcoma. Staging positron emission tomography with CT (PET/CT) showed the cricoid mass to be hypermetabolic with suspicious left level IIA and V PET avid lymph nodes (). She was evaluated for neoadjuvant chemotherapy and completed 3 cycles of cisplatin (100 mg/m2 on day 1) and doxorubicin (25 mg/m2 on days 1-3) with dose reduction of cisplatin to 80 mg/m2 on the third cycle, which finished on April 12, 2014. On April 30, 2014, a post-chemotherapy PET/CT showed interval decrease in size and FDG uptake in the left-sided cricoid mass (). The previously seen suspicious lymph nodes were no longer hypermetabolic. On May 27, 2014, she was taken to the operating room for a total laryngectomy and left thyroid lobectomy. Intraoperative frozen sections reported negative margins, however, final surgical pathology revealed residual disease at the deep tracheal margin. There was no tumor necrosis present.