The patient was a 64-year-old male with a past medical history of hypertension and coronary artery disease and is currently a 1 pack per day smoker and has been recently treated for transient ischemic attack 2 months prior. He presented with new onset aphasia and unsteady gait for 2–3 days. Upon arrival to the emergency department, he was found to be afebrile with a heart rate of 48–54 bpm, a respiratory rate of 18 bpm, and a blood pressure of 142/66 mm Hg.
On examination, the patient was awake, alert, and oriented. His speech was clear and slightly hesitant, but without dysarthria. He followed commands and was able to name objects. There was no facial weakness or asymmetry. Other than some mild right upper extremity ataxia on the finger-to-nose test, the rest of the neurological examination was within normal limits.
Our stroke team was immediately called and they recommended imaging studies of the head. A computed tomography scan of the head without contrast showed no acute intracranial disease. Magnetic resonance imaging of brain showed multiple areas of restricted diffusion in the left middle cerebral artery territory in the medial and lateral left temporoparietal cortex and subcortical and periventricular white matter consistent with acute hemorrhagic infarcts, probably embolic. There were also multiple areas of restricted diffusion in the left frontoparietal periventricular centrum semiovale region consistent with acute watershed infarcts ( and ). The patient was immediately started on aspirin, high-dose statin, clopidogrel, and fluids to allow for permissive hypertension.
As part of the workup to determine the cause of his embolic stroke, the patient would have been sent for a trans-thoracic echocardiogram (TTE), but since he was recently worked up for a stroke just 2 months prior to this admission with a TTE, he was sent for a transesophageal echocardiogram (TEE). The TEE showed a fairly large (12×3 mm), bulky, and highly mobile mass on the aortic aspect of the aortic valve