A 36-year-old African American female presented to the emergency room (ER) with a four-day history of left leg pain and burning sensation. She was previously evaluated in the ER four days prior to this visit for the left lower extremity pain, was given steroids and pain medications and given a tentative diagnosis of sciatica. However, her symptoms progressed and she noticed an increased swelling of the left lower extremity when compared to the right, which prompted her to visit the ER. She had a prior history of back pain, pyelonephritis, four cesarean sections and bilateral tubal ligation. There was no history of prolonged immobilization, prolonged travel or oral contraceptive use and no recent trauma to her leg. There was no prior personal and family history of blood clots. She did, however, smoke a half pack per day cigarette for ten years.
On presentation, vitals included a blood pressure of 107/61 mmHg, pulse 71 beats/min, respiratory rate of 18/min, temperature 98.7°F and oxygen saturation of 98% on ambient air. She had unremarkable cardiac, respiratory and abdominal examination. She had a swollen left lower extremity extending up to the thigh, tender and erythematous left lower leg at calf with bilateral positive dorsal pedal pulses. Laboratory data including complete blood count, complete metabolic panel, coagulation profile (international normalized ratio, prothrombin time, and white blood cell count with neutrophil predominance without bands). An x-ray of the lumbar spine showed decreased lordosis but no fracture, destructive lesion, or significant degenerative lesions. A lower extremity Doppler ultrasound revealed occlusive acute deep venous thrombosis in the left common femoral, deep femoral veins and non-occlusive venous thrombosis in the left distal greater saphenous and popliteal veins.
Anticoagulation therapy with intravenous heparin was initiated. As the clot burden was very high, interventional radiology (IR) guided clot lysis via Trellis® procedure was done. A computed tomographic (CT) scan of the chest with intravenous contrast revealed