A 44-year-old Caucasian female referred to the ER with acute abdominal pain. Past medical history revealed no family history of colon cancer and no history of smoke. At the admission, physical examination revealed pain and tenderness in the right lower quadrant with no signs of bowel obstruction, mimicking an acute appendicitis. Laboratory investigation has not shown important pathological signs. Ultrasonography examination of the abdomen showed a contracted gallbladder with normal bile ducts, no pathologies affecting the pancreas and neither free fluid, nor signs of acute appendicitis. In consideration of the clinical status of the patient and the persistent acute abdominal pain even with a negative ultrasound, a CT scan was performed to better comprehend the nature of the underling pathology. CT scan was performed four hours after the hospital admission, and demonstrated a thickened cecal wall with a small number of pathological nearby lymph nodes, confirming the absence of peritoneal free fluid. Given the absence of radiological signs of GI perforations and of other surgical and medical emergencies, we decided to perform a colonoscopy to better understand the etiology of the underling pathology. Colonoscopy was performed 24 hours after the hospital admission and after an adequate bowel preparation and revealed a massive, ulcerated, stenotic and necrotic lesion that involved the caecum and the right colon. Biopsies of the lesion were performed and the microscopic examination showed a cell proliferation composed by large, pleomorphic cellular elements with vesicular nuclei, hyperchromatic nucleoli and eosinophilic cytoplasm, mixed with necrotic tissue. These findings were consistent with the diagnosis of poorly differentiated carcinoma ().
For these reasons, a laparoscopic right colectomy in an elective setting was performed, together with an accurate lymphadenectomy. Surgical exploration of the abdominal cavity confirmed the absence of peritoneal carcinosis and distant metastasis. Pathological examination of the surgical specimen revealed an ulcerated lesion of the right colon with a 6 cm diameter, composed of a whitish and compact tissue, with hard consistency and infiltrative margins that extended to the perivisceral adipose tissue. Microscopic examination discovered a poorly differentiated neoplastic epithelial tumor, rich in mitosis,