In this article we present an unusual case of a 53-year-old male patient, who was referred to our department because of acute intestinal obstruction, presumably of malignant cause. Otherwise the patient had a diabetes mellitus type 2 on peroral therapy, smoker for 30 years (15 cigarettes per day) and occasional alcohol drinker. Prior to our treatment he was hospitalized at the internal clinic because of upper abdominal pain and vomiting. He did not pass any stool for 6 days. He was dehydrated, laboratory tests showed hyperkalemia, mild leukocytosis and renal insufficiency, C-reactive protein was mildly elevated (27 mg/L). Serologic examinations for viruses were negative, tyroid hormones were normal. The tumor marker carcinoembryonic antigen was elevated (717.2 µg/L), other tumor markers were normal. He was vomiting a dark brown fluid, therefore an urgent gastroscopy was rendered. Gastroscopy showed a soor oesophagitis and Helicobacter pylori erosive gastritis. The abdominal ultrasound showed dilated small bowel loops. Computed tomography (CT) of the abdomen showed small bowel obstruction, but the exact cause could not be determined. There was no free fluid nor free air in the abdomen. There were seen some changes of both adrenal glands, that were suspective for metastatic lesions (Fig. ).
The patient was sent to the operating theater for an emergency operation. He was placed in supine position. He already had inserted a nasogastric tube and a Foley catheter. Intravenous perioperative antibiotic prophylaxis was administered with gentamicin and metronidazole. The operative field was prepared in a sterile manner. A small median laparotomy was made and a thorough exploration of abdominal cavity was performed. During the abdominal exploration we found multiple metastatic lesions along the entire length of small bowel and also some lesions along small bowel mesenterium. One of the metastatic lesions was completely occluding the bowel lumen and was the cause of intestinal obstruction and ileus. The other lesion along the entire length of small bowel were at that time nonobstructive