A 57-year-old lady, a non-smoker and non-drinker with good past health, presented with a week’s history of sore throat, runny nose and productive cough. Upon admission, she was having high fever and sinus tachycardia. Her neck had skin erythema and crepitus on palpation. Oxygen saturation was maintained. Her lateral neck radiograph showed the presence of retropharyngeal gas and chest radiograph noted consolidative changes at the right lower zone. A septic work-up was performed and her laboratory evaluation revealed significant metabolic acidosis.
The urgent contrast computed tomography neck and thorax revealed multiple gas locules in bilateral deep cervical spaces, loculated right pleural effusion and right chest wall subcutaneous emphysema. The overall radiological features were suggestive of underlying deep neck space infection by gas-forming organisms complicated with descending mediastinitis and empyema thoracis (see Figs –).
Emergency surgical debridement and drainage were performed by combined bilateral transcervicotomy and right video-assisted thoracoscopic approaches. All deep neck spaces down to mediastinum were opened. A moderate amount of turbid fluid was drained and necrotic fascia and muscle were debrided. The remaining collection inside the thoracic cavity was drained through thoracoscopic approach. The neck wound was laid open and packed with gauze. Multiple right lower posterior teeth with severe periodontitis were extracted. Chest drains were inserted at the conclusion of operation.
The patient required high dose inotropes throughout the operation. She was kept intubated in ICU afterwards. Daily wound examination and dressing was done. Second look wound exploration and debridement were performed on Day 3. Residual collection over the superior mediastinum and right parapharyngeal space was drained. The patient was tracheostomised. A feeding tube was inserted to help build up her nutrition. She was dependent on inotropic and ventilatory supports during the first 4 weeks. Her neck wound was amenable to primary closure 6 weeks after the first debridement. The tracheostomy was successfully decanalised. She was