A 10-year-old boy belonging to Indo-Aryan ethnicity, and a product of nonconsanguineous marriage with normal birth and developmental history was referred to our outpatient department with history of insidious onset and slowly progressive symptoms in form of shock like jerky movements of right hand for last 4 months which occurred at a frequency of 2–3 episodes/min. The movements used to disappear during sleep and were not associated with any specific aggravating or relieving factors. Concurrently, the child also had a history of the abnormal posturing of right hand while writing his lessons, which used to alter his handwriting. However, he did not complain of any weakness, loss of dexterity or any sensory phenomenon. No family member was affected with a similar illness. Besides, his history was remarkable, for acute onset fever followed by altered sensorium and left focal seizures 4 years back. During the event, he was treated with a provisional diagnosis of viral encephalitis. However, cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) study performed on that occasion did not reveal any abnormality in cytological and biochemical analysis. Viral serology panel including herpes simplex virus (HSV) polymerase chain reaction (PCR) in serum and CSF was negative. PCR for tuberculosis in CSF was also negative. There was no record available for the neuroimaging study done during that event. However, electroencephalogram record was suggestive of generalized slowing, thus pointing toward an encephalitic process. He was treated on lines of viral encephalitis and subsequently discharged on phenytoin with minimal left hemiparesis which did not interfere with his daily activities. On examination, we observed the child while writing, and noticed intermittent dystonic supination of his right wrist resulting in abnormal grasp on pencil and disturbed handwriting. Furthermore, he had intermittent myoclonic jerks of right upper limb, mainly involving distal muscles. Also, noteworthy was the increased tone in extremities, right sided limbs being more rigid as compared to left. Superficial and deep tendon