A 22-year-old Caucasian female with no past medical history presented to the emergency department after being found by her boyfriend unconscious at home. The patient’s last known normal was 11 h prior. The mother reported that the patient had complaints of generalized malaise and fatigue over the last 2 months, but otherwise she was healthy. No sick contacts were reported. Family history was significant for Hashimoto’s thyroiditis in the mother and celiac disease in the father. Patient had a two pack year history of smoking and had recently quit 3 months ago. The only medication patient was taking was an oral contraceptive. She was an occasional alcohol and marijuana user but did not use any other recreational drugs.
On presentation to the emergency department, blood pressure was 90/61 mm Hg, heart rate was 127 beats per minute, temperature was 38.9 °C, respiratory rate was 28 breaths per minute and saturation was 87% on room air. The patient was subsequently intubated for airway protection. On physical exam, pupils were equal and reactive, 2/6 holosystolic murmur was heard on the left lower sternal border, and pulses were diminished throughout. Extremities revealed cold, dusky fingers with mottling of toes bilaterally. On neurological exam, there were no spontaneous movements of left upper extremity and minimal movements of the left lower extremity.
Labs on admission are listed in .
The 2D transthoracic echocardiogram showed an ejection fraction of 15% and severe mitral regurgitation. Given the altered mental status, CT of head was obtained which showed extensive multifocal areas of hypoattenuation throughout the bilateral frontal, parietal, occipital and right temporal lobes consistent with multifocal infarction concerning for cardioembolic etiology ().
Given the fever, leukocytosis and suspected cardioembolic phenomenon causing infarctions in the brain, there was concern for bacterial endocarditis. Hence, transesophageal echocardiogram (TEE) was performed which showed a 1 cm vegetation at the anterior mitral leaflet (,