A 75-year-old Hispanic man with a history of hypertension presented with complaints of left eyelid droop and double vision for 1 day. He admitted to have had a blunt trauma to the left eye 5 days prior to presentation. He denied any eye pain, difficulty in eye movements or decreased vision. He had had cataract surgery and laser procedure for corneal ectasia a year ago. He denied any exposure to tobacco, alcohol or any recreational drugs. He also admitted to have had weight loss of more than 20 pounds over the past 2 months and had had decreased appetite for the past 3 months. On physical examination, he had ptosis of the left eye with limited abduction, depression, and decreased facial sensation of the left side. Optometry revealed visual acuity of 20/30 and 20/150 in the left and right eyes, respectively. Slit lamp examination of the left eye confirmed ptosis with an interpalpebral distance of 3.5 mm. Other cranial nerves were intact. Motor and cerebellar examination was normal. Fundoscopy showed hypertensive changes. On neck examination, a 3 × 2 cm nontender, mobile left supraclavicular lymph node was palpable. Abdominal examination revealed splenomegaly and ascites. Initial laboratory findings were significant for mild microcytic anemia and hypercalcemia. In view of multiple cranial nerve palsies (third, fourth, fifth and sixth), he underwent MRI and magnetic resonance venogram of the brain which were normal. Magnetic resonance angiogram showed a 2-mm saccular aneurysm in the left internal carotid artery that did not explain the patient's symptoms. A CT scan of the chest, abdomen and pelvis revealed splenomegaly with splenic masses, ascites, and mediastinal and retroperitoneal lymphadenopathy (Fig. ). He underwent endoscopic evaluation for his anemia and weight loss that revealed benign polyps in the stomach, duodenum, descending colon, and sigmoid colon. Further workup with fine needle aspiration of the supraclavicular lymph node revealed a high-grade, diffuse large B-cell malignant lymphoma. Immunohistological