The author reports a case of 30-year-old male referred to the physiotherapy outpatient department with the chief complaint of difficulty in mouth opening and an inability to eat spicy food for 4 years. He had a positive history of areca nut chewing and smoking tobacco for 10 years. The patient used to chew commercially available areca nut packets with a frequency of 5–6 packets per day and smoke 10 cigarettes in a day. The patient quit the habit completely 1 year ago. The patient had been previously treated with medications for 6 months and was significantly relieved of burning sensation but did not get any significant improvement in mouth opening. The patient gave a history of undergoing treatment with topical application and systemic medication, the nature of the medication is unknown to the patient, for 6 months intermittently. No dietary changes were advised to the patient, but progressively, the intake of solid food was reduced due to increased difficulty in mouth opening, and the patient reported with an ability to have only semi-solid food.
An oral physician with specialty in such cases was consulted, and on inspection, reduced mouth opening with the initial inter-incisal distance of approximately 10 mm was recorded. Blanching of bilateral buccal mucosa and soft palate was present. Uvula was normal. Tongue protrusion was mildly restricted. On palpation, thick fibrous bands were present bilaterally in the buccal mucosa near the mandibular trigone area. Panoramic radiological view [] was done to rule out bony abnormality in the maxilla and mandible; however, it revealed generalized horizontal bone loss in the lower arch and impacted 28, 38, and 48. Clinically, the restricted mouth opening was due to the fibrous bands present in the buccal mucosa which may or may not be superimposed by inflammatory changes due to vertical impaction of 48. Based on the features, a clinical grading of severe OSMF (Grade 3) was given.[]
Through the global diagnosis of osteopathic findings, it was found that there