A 73-year-old man consulted our institution for a skin ulcer of the left third toe in September 2014. He had a clinical history of fulminant myocarditis, myocardial infarction, acute cardiac failure, chronic renal failure (undergoing dialysis), arteriosclerosis obliterans of the lower limb, hypertension, diabetes and visual disturbance. He was a non-smoker, living by himself, and he could walk with support.
His notable illness was an episode of fulminant myocarditis and acute cardiac failure in December 2011, which was treated in the ICU for 15 days, and he was discharged from hospital 3 months later. At the time of discharge, he still had significant cardiac functional disorder with an ejection fraction (EF) rate of less than 20%.
In April 2014, he developed ulceration of the right toes, diagnosed as arteriosclerosis obliterans of the lower limb at the cardiovascular medicine department and underwent percutaneous transluminal angioplasty (PTA). In September 2014, delayed healing of the ulceration of the skin was noted; thus, he was referred to the plastic surgery department.
Upon the first consultation at the plastic surgery department, ischaemic ulcer of the left third toe was seen and his EF rate was 18.4%. shows his biologic and haematologic data, detected bacteria and treatment course. Biological data on the left limb were examined between the revascularization procedure and surgical management, and blood test and wound culture were examined at the time of surgical management. Revascularization procedure by PTA was not conducted after October 2016.
In September 2014, after performing PTA for the left lower limb, amputation of the left third toe was conducted. In December 2014, re-stenosis of the bilateral below-knee arteries and necrosis of the left first toe were noted, thus re-PTA was conducted for the bilateral limbs. Subsequently, amputation of the left first toe was performed. In September 2015, arterial re-stenosis of the lower extremity developed along with necrosis of all the left toes, plantar and