We describe the case of a 77-year-old Caucasian man who was referred to our clinic because of a swollen and painful right knee, skin ulcerations, fistulae, and functional limitation. He denied any history of recent trauma or infections; nonetheless, the patient admitted to the self-injection of paraffin oil 58 years before to treat a subcutaneous defect occurring after a large post-traumatic hematoma. Physical examination revealed dark and hard skin, forming firm plaques (27×21 cm) that involved superficial layers of the anterolateral aspect of the knee; small ulcerations and fistulae secreting purulent exudate were also observed (). The patient reported worsening limitation of the flexion and extension of the right knee during the previous 4 months. Radiological examination revealed soft tissue swelling with several dense and streaky calcifications (). Blood test findings were within normal limits. The patient reported type 1 diabetes and was a heavy smoker.
The patient underwent a wide surgical resection of the skin overlying the knee, which was firmly adherent to the joint capsule, and a nearly circumferential, full-thickness excision up to the skeletal muscle in the distal third of the thigh and proximal third of the leg (). As the presence of risk factors such as diabetes and smoking advised against the use of microsurgical techniques, a less invasive two-stage reconstruction using bilayer acellular dermal matrix (IntegraLifeSciences, Plainsboro, NJ, USA) () and subsequent split-thickness skin grafts (STSG) after 20 days was performed. Histological examination revealed no evidence of any paraffin; nonetheless, dense and fibrous connective tissue with chronic inflammatory cell infiltrate was observed. Several optically empty vacuolar structures surrounded by foreign-body-type multinucleated giant cells were also detected, suggesting an oleo granulomatous reaction to foreign material. Postoperative recovery was uneventful and the patient was discharged 4 days after the second operation. Follow-up after 16 months showed no signs of skin ulcerations or inflammation, with an overall improvement in function (, ). A range