A 50-year-old Chinese man with a 5-year history of neck and shoulder pain presented with muscle atrophy and weakness in both arms. He was admitted to hospital with complaints of unstable holding for 9 months and numbness of limbs for 2 months, which worsened in one week. Five years previously, he tried the physiotherapy due to the pain of neck and shoulder, and relief from pain followed. Nine months previously, muscle atrophy and weakness in both arms were noted but without being promptly treated. And his pain of neck was obviously worsened 2 months before admission, together with numbness of limbs; the cervical and lumbar image examinations in other hospital were suggestive of protrusion of intervertebral disc at the C5–7 level and the L4-S1 level. Then he received the physiotherapy and felt the relief of pain, but numbness of limbs did not significantly relieve, which suddenly worsened in one week.
The patient also presented with a 3-year history of diabetes mellitus (DM), a 20-year history of gout involving left wrist and left knee, a 30-year history of smoking and drinking. Previous pharmaceutical treatment for gout had been intermittent for about 1 year, consisting of dexamethasone for acute episodes. Patient’s family and psychosocial history were not relevant for this case report.
After admission, physical examination was performed in accordance with best practice and clinical guidelines [] by physician, in which multiple tophi were seen in left wrist, both feet and knee; bilateral superficial sensory declined below the level of mastoid portion, particularly below the knee, which presumably resulted from the lumbar lesions. The muscle strengths of upper limbs were graded 2+ to 4 and lower limbs were graded 0 in accordance with Medical Research Council (MRC) Scale for Muscle Strength []. The reflex of bilateral biceps, triceps and radial periosteum disappeared; the reflex of bilateral knee was normal and that of bilateral ankle disappeared. The muscle atrophy of bilateral thenar, hypothenar, forearms, biceps, tric