A 63-year-old male patient sought the medical facility complaining of recent productive cough and dyspnea. His past medical history included pulmonary tuberculosis, which was treated few years before, and smoking of 15 packs/year. He had sought medical care several times during the prior 2 months, but was always treated with symptomatic medication until a plain chest radiography was taken, which showed mild mediastinal enlargement and a bulging on the right atrium contour (). This was the reason for the hospital admission and clinical investigation.
The initial physical examination revealed an afebrile patient, who presented normal hemodynamic parameters and no peripheral edema. Lung examination was normal, and cardiac auscultation revealed an ejection murmur. Raised jugular venous pressure and hepatomegaly were also observed. The remaining examination was normal and the initial laboratory workup was unremarkable.
The echodopplercardiogram showed pericardium thickening with mild effusion and a left ventricular ejection fraction of 60%. Thoracic computed tomography (CT) showed a mass with soft tissue attenuation infiltrating the pericardium and the anterior wall of the right atrium () and multiple, bilateral, scattered, solid pulmonary nodules measuring up to 2.6 cm.
The magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) also showed a mass with heterogeneous distinction diffusely involving the pericardium, with compression/invasion of the right ventricle’s outflow tract, pulmonary artery and superior vena cava ( and ).
The pericardium was biopsied, but the histological examination did not reveal evidence of malignancy. A pulmonary nodule was subsequently biopsied, which showed a mesenchymal malignancy represented by sinusoidal vascular channels filled with red blood cells and lined with atypical endothelial cells (). The immunohistochemical profile showed positivity for CD31, CD34 (), while Desmin and S100 Protein were negative, rendering the diagnosis of angiosarcoma. Adding the radiological and clinical findings to the histological clues, the final diagnosis was metastatic angiosarcoma primary to the right atrium.
The patient received chemotherapy with doxorubicin 25 mg/