A 31-year-old white male presented with dyspnea associated with generalized weakness and lethargy for the past 4 months. In the past month, his breathing had further worsened with episodes of syncope with exertion. He also reported an intermittent fever and had lost 40 pounds in 2 months. He smokes cigarettes and drinks alcohol regularly along with intravenous (IV) methamphetamine once or twice per week.
On presentation, he was febrile, tachycardic, and hypotensive and was admitted to the hospital for the management of septic shock. The examination showed a Grade 2 systolic murmur in the mitral area and tenderness of the upper abdomen. He was treated with IV fluids and broad-spectrum antibiotics as per protocol. Computed tomography (CT) of the abdomen showed geographical enhancement of the spleen suspicious of infarction, along with multiple small renal infarction. On the basis of these findings, infective endocarditis with embolization was suspected. Echocardiogram confirmed 2.5 cm × 1.5 cm vegetation in both mitral leaflets with evidence of severe mitral regurgitation [].
While being worked up for mitral valve replacement, he suddenly developed numbness of his left arm. On examination, the left arm was pale with an absent radial pulse. Bedside, arterial Doppler revealed a possible obstruction of the proximal brachial artery with maintained blood flow distally. Meanwhile, his blood cultures grew A. defectiva (nutritionally deficient Streptococcus [NVS]) from both of the bottles []. Vascular surgery was consulted, and CT angiogram of the left upper extremity was performed, revealing an occlusion of the left brachial artery distal to the deep brachial branch point []. There was a reconstitution of flow distally within the ulcer artery, which was patent to the level of the wrist, and the radial artery did not become opacified until just proximal to the wrist joint, suggesting extension of the thrombus into the radial artery. The patient was initiated on anticoagulation therapy and underwent left brachial artery balloon embolectomy with extraction of two clots/veget