A 51 year-old male was diagnosed with chronic pancreatitis of seven months duration, having an obscure etiology. He was a non-drinker and a non-smoking. His chief symptom included several episodes daily of severe abdominal pain, and unable to stand without narcotic analgesics. The pain was mainly epigastric, but radiating to the rear. It was more severe after meals, and was relieved by leaning forward. Patient had lost weight (from 90 kg to 65 kg), and was diabetic.
The diagnosis of chronic pancreatitis was made based on the clinical presentation, radiological workups and percutaneous biopsy at another center. He had a metallic biliary stent for biliary stenosis. Endoscopic examinations revealed gastritis. A percutaneous celiac axis blockage was required for severe episodes of pain. Before referring to our center, patient had undergone laparotomy for pancreatic resection; however, because of the portal hypertension, the procedure had been capped off. The pancreatic tru-cut biopsy at this laparotomy confirmed the diagnosis of chronic pancreatitis without evidence of malignancy. He was then referred to us for surgery for pain relief.
At the time of admission, he was daily using narcotic analgesics, proton pump inhibitor, pancreas enzyme extracts and antidepressant drugs. He had mild anemia, slightly elevated liver function tests, and CA-19-9 was 202 U/ml. Computed tomography was compatible with chronic pancreatitis (heterogenous parenchyma, dilated pancreatic duct), and a 4 cm pseudocyst was seen at the tail of the pancreas ( and ). Positron emission tomography revealed the pancreatic activity as 5.1 SUVmax.
We intended to make a pylorus-preserving pancreaticoduodenectomy with portal vein replacement. Before surgery, the patient and his relatives were informed of the possible surgical methods. A reverse “L” incision was used. Adhesions of the prior surgery and venous collaterals complicated the procedure. A cholecystectomy was performed, and the common bile duct was transected for bilio-enteric anastomosis to replace the biliary stent. The metallic stent