A 71-year-old Caucasian male patient sought medical care complaining of a 4-month history of exertion dyspnea and edema of the lower limbs. His past medical history included hypertension and congestive heart failure, and although he had been abstinent for 1 year, he had previously smoked 75 packs/year. On physical examination he was hypotensive and cyanotic; his pulse was arrhythmic; he had edema of the lower limbs; he had bulging jugular veins when in the supine position; there were rales in the lower two-thirds of both lungs; and tender hepatomegaly was present. The electrocardiogram showed atrial fibrillation, and the echodopplercardiogram estimated the left ventricle ejection fraction of 63% (Teicholz), eccentric left ventricular hypertrophy, marked mitral insufficiency, and a left atrium of 85 mm. Pulmonary systolic pressure was estimated at 62 mmHg with marked tricuspid valve insufficiency. There were no valvular morphological abnormalities. He was hospitalized with the diagnosis of hypertensive cardiomyopathy and cor pulmonale.
He also complained of vision loss for 2 months accompanied by protrusion of the right eye globe. The ophthalmologic examination in the right eye revealed marked corneal deepithelization and edema, ocular protrusion, the absence of photomotor and consensual reflexes, and low visual acuity. The left eye was normal. Brain computed tomography and cranial magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) confirmed the presence of a neoplastic lesion infiltrating the paranasal sinuses and the frontal encephalic lobe (). A tumoral biopsy was scheduled, but the patient died before the procedure could be done because of a refractory cardiogenic shock.
Autopsy findings included marked cardiomegaly with four-chamber dilation; the interventricular septum measured 18 mm, and the ventricular wall (posterior, anterior, and lateral) measured 15 mm. Radiological findings were confirmed at autopsy as a metastatic lesion most probably from an epithelial neoplasm of the esophagus. A 2 cm wide ulcerated lesion was found in the middle third and other lesion with a vegetating appearance measuring 1