A 67-year-old man with a 40 pack-year smoking history initially presented with chills and a productive cough and was given antibiotics for presumed pneumonia. When his condition did not improve, a computed tomography (CT) of the chest was performed and revealed a large right hilar mass with extensive mediastinal adenopathy as well as surrounding infiltrate and atelectasis. Bronchial brushings and a right hilar node FNA were consistent with SCLC. The remainder of the workup, including brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), bone scan and positron emission tomography (PET)-CT, was negative for distant metastatic disease, establishing a diagnosis of limited stage (LS) disease. His medical history was significant for numerous coexisting medical conditions including a remote history of suspected but unconfirmed connective tissue disorder (CREST), colitis, esophagitis, duodenitis, livedo reticularis, Hashimoto’s thyroiditis, multinodular goiter, arthritis, glaucoma, hypertension, multifocal motor neuropathy and atrioventricular (AV) nodal reentry tract for which he had undergone AV nodal ablation. Of note, neither the Hashimoto’s nor CREST were active for multiple years leading up to his diagnosis of SCLC. The latter diagnosis had been suspected by the Rheumatology Service but after a negative workup, he was discharged from their clinic.
After completion of staging, he was advised to undergo definitive chemoradiation. He was also advised to re-establish follow up with the Rheumatology Service, but declined. After a detailed discussion of the potential for increased risk of complications from radiation with an underlying connective tissue disorder, he elected to proceed. He was treated with intensity modulated radiation therapy to the right lung and mediastinum in 33 daily fractions of 200 cGy to a total dose of 6600 cGy with two cycles of concurrent cisplatin (cis) and etoposide. After 3000 cGy, another CT was performed to allow for decrease in treatment field after initial response. RT was completed in 8 wk and 1 d. A representative image from his