A female in her early 70s was referred to our hospital for endoscopic treatment of a 15-mm laterally spreading tumor adjacent to the appendiceal orifice, which was detected incidentally during a screening colonoscopy. An ER of the lesion had been attempted at another hospital without success and only biopsy had been performed after that. Her comorbidities included hypertension, dyslipidemia, and osteoporosis. Her medical history was negative for previous abdominal surgery, allergies, smoking, and alcohol consumption.
Magnifying endoscopy with narrow-band imaging and chromoendoscopy suggested the tumor was a simple adenoma. After obtaining written informed consent, we performed ER of the tumor. We began injected glycerol into the submucosal layer and incised the mucosa bordering the appendix side of the tumor using a DualKnife® (Olympus Corp., Tokyo, Japan). Subsequently, the submucosal layer was carefully dissected using the same device. However, due to the scarring and fibrosis resulting from the previous attempt at resection, the submucosal layer did not lift adequately, and the submucosal dissection was extremely difficult. Consequently, an intraoperative micro perforation occurred but was tightly closed by clips. When the tumor was almost resected by ESD, we completely removed it using a snare. The size of the lesion was 15 × 15 mm (Fig. ). After the ESD, there was neither postoperative bleeding nor inflammatory reaction suggesting peritonitis. The patient was discharged 5 days after ESD as scheduled. Pathological examination revealed that the tumor was a high-grade tubular adenoma, and we diagnosed a curative resection of the lesion.
The patient initially did well after she was discharged. However, 10 months later she experienced sudden severe abdominal pain and a low-grade fever before a meal. She visited her family physician immediately. Physical examination disclosed localized rebound tenderness at McBurney's point at that time. The laboratory analysis revealed an inflammatory reaction with a leukocyte count of 14,700/μL (79.1% neutrophils) and a C-reactive protein level of