A 34-year-old woman presented for evaluation of central chest pain followed by a large left-sided pleural effusion causing pleurisy and dyspnoea. Her past medical history included autoimmune hepatitis, premature ovarian failure, and possible myelodysplastic disease with Trisomy 8 on bone marrow examination. She gave no history of trauma, no family history of lymphatic disorder, and there was no evidence of yellow nail syndrome. She was born in Macedonia, emigrated to Australia at the age of 20, and was a lifelong non-smoker. The effusion was treated with therapeutic drainage with the temporary intercostal catheter and fluid with a milky appearance was visualized. Analysis of pleural fluid demonstrated chylomicrons, reactive mesothelial cells, and negative microbiology. Initial chest computed tomography (CT) scan demonstrated normal pulmonary parenchyma. There was no pleural thickening, mass, or nodules. Over the next year, she presented on three more occasions for drainage of left-sided chylous pleural effusions. In order to further elucidate the cause of her pathology she underwent a number of imaging investigations. Lower limb lymphoscintogram demonstrated delayed movement on the right and accumulation of tracer in the abnormal soft tissue in the left superior mediastinal area. Positron emission tomography (PET)/CT scan demonstrated multiple enlarged superior mediastinal lymph nodes anterior to the great vessels of the neck and lateral to the aortic arc, measuring up to 15 mm in size with abnormal uptake in the mediastinal nodes and in the lower neck soft tissue masses. Mediastinal magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) demonstrated a complex multi-lobulated high T2-weighted structure extending from the anterior triangles of the neck down to the superior mediastinum where it surrounded the great vessels (Fig. ). Initially, this appearance was thought to be consistent with a congenital lymphatic malformation and fine-needle aspiration biopsy of a left-sided cervical lymph node demonstrated benign mesothelial cells. Mediastinal inflow obstruction caused thrombosis of the proximal left subclavian vein and left internal jugular vein requiring therapeutic anticoagulation