A 74-year-old African-American male with a past medical history of severe chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, coronary artery disease, hyperlipidemia, and hypertension presented to our hospital in July 2016 with complaints of abdominal pain and gross hematuria for 1 week. His abdominal pain was sharp in nature and suprapubic in location. His hematuria had been worsening for the past week, and further history revealed that he had been having transient hematuria for the past year and a half. Additionally, for the past 2 months, he reported decreased appetite, fatigue, and a 20-pound weight loss. No other pertinent positives on review of systems were noted. His family history was unremarkable for cancers in any first- or second-degree relatives, but his social history did reveal that the patient was a heavy former smoker. Physical examination was significant for mild left lower quadrant abdominal tenderness and a large left supraclavicular mass that was firm and fixed.
CT imaging of the abdomen and pelvis revealed a 14.0 × 7.0 × 16.0 cm heterogeneously enhancing retroperitoneal mass within the left renal fossa extending into the midline (Fig. ). It showed involvement of the surrounding vasculature, as well as liver and bone metastases of the L2 and L4 vertebral bodies. CT scan of the chest was positive for bilateral pleural effusions and an additional T3 lytic lesion, but no pulmonary lesion was found. A cystoscopy was performed which did not reveal any gross abnormality of the bladder; however, urine cytology showed malignant cells concerning for SCC. Biopsies of the left retroperitoneal mass and supraclavicular lymph node were performed, both of which showed immunohistochemistry positivity for synaptophysin and chromogranin and partial positivity for PanCK and CK7. They were negative for CD45, S100, CD3, CD20, and p63. These findings led to the diagnosis of SCC of the upper urinary tract with bone and liver metastases. MRI of the brain did not show any metastatic lesions.
He was