A 63-year-old Caucasian woman sought the emergency department (ED) because of severe dyspnea during the last month, which had been worsening over the last 2 years. She was a heavy tobacco smoker (102 packs/year) since an early age and was irregularly following treatment for hypertension. In a 2-year period, she attended the ED five times complaining of dyspnea with the working diagnosis of decompensate chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) by respiratory infection. At her second emergency appointment, (specifically 18 months ago) she was submitted to a thoracic computed tomography (CT) that revealed signs of pulmonary hypertension characterized by the enlargement of the pulmonary trunk artery and its branches, dilation of the right cardiac chambers, and moderate pericardial effusion (). The analysis of the pulmonary window showed a disease characterized predominantly by ground glass opacity, eventually with subpleural sparing in the lung bases associated with some areas of thin reticulated and traction bronchiectasis. No honeycomb cysts were found. These imaging features were consistent with non-specific interstitial pneumonia (). Emphysema, predominantly of the paraseptal subtype, was observed in the upper lobes. Additionally, there was a discrete atheromatosis of the aorta, which was negligible in the coronary territory, and a mild splenomegaly. The echo Doppler cardiogram showed a normal left ventricular systolic function, but an estimated pulmonary artery pressure of 100 mmHg, which was confirmed with the right cardiac catheterization and pressures measurement. The stool examination (three samples) and rectal biopsy were negative for Schistosoma mansoni’s eggs; the pulmonary angiogram failed to demonstrate pulmonary thromboembolism; and laboratory work-up for connective diseases were all negative. Blood gas analysis showed severe hypoxemia without hypercapnia.
The patient was prescribed oxygen supplementation. In the following 18-month period, she developed several respiratory failure exacerbations concomitantly with progressive hypercapnia and bicarbonate retention. Clinically she developed worsening signs of heart failure and anasarca. The plain thoracic radiography showed an enlarged cardiac silhouette