A 69-year-old asymptomatic female was found an abnormal shadow on a chest X-ray during a regular health check-up. Then she was referred to Shandong Provincial Hospital Affiliated to Shandong University for further investigation.
She described her history of hypertension, diabetes, and depression and taken oral drugs to control the blood pressure, blood sugar, and the depression symptoms. The patient denied history of smoking and lung disease and had no respiratory complaints or other physical symptoms. She received the enhanced chest computerized tomography (CT) scan that showed a tumor located in the left lingular lobe (Figs. and ). Given that trans-bronchial lung biopsy or bronchial alveolar lavage might lead to a false-negative result, the percutaneous lung biopsy was undertaken to diagnosis precisely, and the biopsy pathology showed sarcomatoid cancer. Some other preoperative evaluations were also conducted including physical examinations, cardiac, and pulmonary function test. In addition, CT scans of the brain and abdomen and bone scintigraphy were performed to rule out distant metastasis. According to all the preoperative examinations, the clinical stage was classified as Ib stage and there was no obvious contraindication. The basic bronchoscopies were performed preoperatively to confirm the extent of tumor invasion. Based on all the examinations, the video-assisted thoracic surgery left lingular lobe with mediastinal lymph node dissection was carried out. The resected specimen showed a peripheral tumor measuring 4.0 cm in maximum diameter. Microscopic images showed that it was comprised 50% spindle cells, 30% giant cells, and 20% adenocarcinoma cells (Fig. ). The final diagnosis was PC. Dissected hilar and mediastinal lymph nodes were free of metastatic disease. Postoperative adjuvant chemotherapy was not performed due to the patient's refusal and has been living cancer-free during the 12 months’ clinic visits after the surgery without any chief complaint. This study was approved by the Ethics Committee of Shandong Provincial Hospital Affiliated to Shandong University (Jinan, China