A 75-year-old male was admitted to the Thoracic Surgery Department in order to undergo an elective left lung upper lobe resection for a moderately differentiated lung adenocarcinoma. Patient medical history included diabetes mellitus, hypertension and dyslipidemia under medication. Moreover, the patient was a heavy smoker (140 Pack/Years). One year ago, he presented to his general practitioner (GP) suffering from cough, anemia, fatigue and weight loss of 12 kg during 3 months. The patient eventually underwent computed tomography (CT) scan, bronchoscopy and tumor biopsy, and he was diagnosed with a moderately differentiated lung cancer, stage IIIa, T3N2M0 according to seventh edition of the TNM staging system. T3 was attributed to tumor size (maximum diameter 10.8 cm) and N2 to metastasis to inferior mediastinal (subcarinal) lymph node according to the initial CT scan. The patient subsequently underwent six cycles of chemotherapy with pemetrexed and carboplatin. After that, a new CT scan, a fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) uptake positron emission tomography (PET)-CT scan and a transthoracic echocardiogram were performed in order to evaluate tumor stage following chemotherapy. The tumor at that time was staged T3N1M0. Size was decreased (maximum diameter 9 cm) but remained T3, while only ipsilateral hilar lymph nodal metastases but no mediastinal nodes were found (downgrade to N1). Additionally, there was close proximity of the tumor to the aortic arch, but vessel wall invasion was not evident according to the radiology report (). Therefore, the patient was scheduled for left upper lung lobe resection.
Under general and thoracic epidural anesthesia, a left anterolateral thoracotomy was performed. In the left lung apex, the tumor was strongly adhered to the thoracic wall and the aortic arch and it seemed to invade the superior pulmonary vein, although this was not evident on the CT scan. Ligation of pulmonary vein and complete resection of tumor due to aortic arch invasion were not possible, so the tumor was