This is the case of a 52-year-old woman with a recently diagnosed liver mass with multiple bilateral metastatic pulmonary nodules (). She had a history of cervical and thyroid cancer 10 and 4 years ago, respectively, both currently in remission. The malignancy was initially detected as a new unexpected liver finding on surveillance imaging for her cervical cancer history. MRI with MR cholangiopancreatography and pathology via CT-guided percutaneous core biopsy confirmed the diagnosis of cholangiocarcinoma. The patient also had a medical history of hypertension, uncontrolled diabetes mellitus, dyslipidaemia, asthma, morbid obesity, hypothyroidism, neuropathy and arthritis, as well as a 62 pack-years smoking history. The patient underwent systemic palliative chemotherapy with cisplatin and gemcitabine for 5 months, and 6 days after her eighth cycle of chemotherapy, she presented to the emergency department with altered mental status, sudden onset of left upper and lower extremities’ weakness and slurred speech for 1 day. The patient also described having mild shortness of breath for a few days and diffuse bilateral wheezing was noted during examination. The patient was not in acute respiratory distress; vital signs and oxygen saturation on room air were within normal limits during this admission. The patient had a medical history of asthma and received a combination of beta-adrenergic and anticholinergic bronchodilator (DuoNeb) which improved her symptoms. With regard to the neurological symptoms, the last known normal (LKN) time was determined as 7 hours prior to admission. A non-contrast head CT scan was unremarkable; however, brain MRI findings were consistent with acute multiple non-haemorrhagic strokes. These infarcts involved the right frontal and temporoparietal areas, in the vascular territory of the right middle cerebral artery bilaterally (). Infarcts also involved the left cerebellum corresponding to the vascular distribution of the posteroinferior cerebellar artery (). The patient was admitted to the neurology stroke service for stroke workup and poststroke care. On the second day of hospitalisation, she experienced agitation, worsening dysarthria and left