A 65-year-old obese male with a medical history of hypertension, diabetes mellitus Type II, and a twenty pack-year smoking history presented with stable angina and dyspnea on exertion. Treadmill myocardial perfusion scintigraphy and transthoracic echocardiogram demonstrated reversible apical ischemia and impaired systolic function, respectively. Subsequent cardiac catheterization revealed severe atherosclerotic disease with multiple coronary artery aneurysms. The left anterior descending artery was occluded 90% proximally and 80% distally. The first diagonal branch had a large aneurysm proximal to an area of nearly 100% occlusion. At the ostium of the circumflex coronary artery from the left main coronary artery, there was another large aneurysm. The right coronary artery demonstrated a severely dilated aneurysm proximally, followed by a 90% occlusive lesion, and another large aneurysmal dilatation was noted distally []. The patient was advised to undergo coronary artery bypass graft. Three months later, he consented to the surgery.
The patient underwent a standard induction with fentanyl, 2% lidocaine, propofol, and succinylcholine. His airway was secured using direct laryngoscopy and an 8.0 cm single-lumen endotracheal tube. Under general anesthesia, the patient underwent successful five-vessel coronary artery bypass graft using the left internal mammary artery and the saphenous vein. In addition to the standard American Society of Anesthesiology monitors, he was additionally monitored with a left radial arterial line, a Swan-Ganz catheter, and transesophageal echocardiography (TEE). The TEE demonstrated a coronary artery aneurysm of the circumflex artery in the mid-esophageal 4-chamber view []. During the procedure, the coronary artery aneurysms were visible from the surgical field []. The surgery finished without any complications, and the patient was transferred to the Surgical Intensive Care Unit per protocol intubated and sedated. He was then subsequently extubated in the Intensive Care Unit three hours postoperatively after passing a pressure support ventilation/continuous positive airway pressure trial on the ventilator. On postoperative day 1, he was transferred to the cardiac step-down unit