The first patient was a 57-year-old man (weight: 89 kg, height: 174 cm), with a traumatic cervical herniation of the nucleus pulposus, scheduled for an anterior cervical discectomy and interbody fusion due to weakness in both hands and neck pain. He was an alcoholic and smoker, but did not have any other underlying disease. His neck extension was slightly limited because of the brace and instability, and his Mallampati score was Class III. Therefore, we prepared alternative approaches to intubation such as a FOB. However, we did not perform awake intubation because the patient was very nervous, compliance was poor, and the limitation of neck movement was not severe. Total intravenous anesthesia was administered using remifentanil and propofol for using evoked potential monitoring. We injected 80 mg of 2% lidocaine for reducing propofol injection pain and to control vital sign reactions to intubation. After setting the target effect site concentration of remifentanil at 3.0 ng/ml and that of propofol at 3.0 µg/ml, we initiated anesthetic infusion and administered 10 mg of vecuronium for muscle relaxation.
After the patient lost consciousness and paralyzed, we attempted conventional endotracheal intubation with a direct laryngoscope. However, no part of the uvula was visible and the patient exhibited a traumatic cervical lesion. Since we could not hyperextend the neck drastically, we attempted FOB-guided intubation. However, it was not easy to approach to trachea through both the mouth and nose, and two trials of endotracheal intubation failed, even after the introduction of a FOB into the trachea. There was uncertainty regarding depth sufficiency of the introduced FOB owing to large amounts of secretion and blood, and because it was difficult to distinguish the vocal cords from the carina. The tube was then advanced into the esophagus, instead of the trachea, and we decided to apply an ILMA that was successfully placed after four attempts. Ventilation via ILMA was effective. Following this, a silicone wire-reinfor