A 57-year-old female was diagnosed at an outside institution 3 years previously with PTC with invasion into the recurrent laryngeal nerve, strap muscle, esophagus, and trachea, as well as multiple lymphadenopathy (T4aN1bM0). The patient was obese (body mass index: 35.0) and had diabetes. Her performance status was 0 according to the Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group system, and she did not smoke or drink.
The patient was referred to our department for treatment. She underwent total thyroidectomy and paratracheal and selective neck dissections (D2a), with resectional management of the recurrent laryngeal nerve, trachea, and esophagus. She also underwent concurrent reconstruction of the recurrent laryngeal nerve. Three months later, her tracheostomy stoma was closed with a local flap, and radioiodine treatment was performed. After that, she received follow-up care at another institution. Three years after her initial treatment of PTC, fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography demonstrated multiple foci of increased fluorodeoxyglucose uptake in the left RPN and upper mediastinal lymph nodes (Fig. ). The patient was referred to our department for treatment of lymph node metastases. She complained of no symptoms associated with the retropharyngeal or upper mediastinal lymph nodes. Contrast-enhanced T1-weighted magnetic resonance imaging of the neck showed lymph node enlargement (18 × 14 mm) in the poststyloid component of the parapharyngeal space without invasion of the carotid artery, as well as in the upper mediastinum up to the innominate artery without invasion of the adjacent tissue (Fig. ). Cytology of the upper mediastinal lymph nodes revealed papillary adenocarcinoma. No cranial nerve deficits were observed. The patient was diagnosed with left retropharyngeal and upper mediastinal lymph node metastases from PTC. She underwent upper mediastinal dissection and left retropharyngeal dissection concurrently. The upper mediastinal nodes were resected successfully through the cervical approach with partial resection of the clavicle, though it was difficult to extend the neck due to a previous postoperative neck scar, severe obesity,