A 35-year old adult, high school educated, married male, tailor by occupation, of lower socio economic status presented to the psychiatry outpatient department of University College of Medical Sciences and Guru Teg Bahadur Hospital, a tertiary care center in the capital city of Delhi. He was referred from the medical department for complaints of increased water intake with two episodes of abnormal movements. Abnormal movements were characterized by sudden tightening of limbs and jaws with jerky movements with urinary incontinence and loss of consciousness one month prior to the visit. Patient was evaluated and found to have low serum sodium levels. The jerky movements were attributed to hyponatremia induced seizure due to increased water intake. On elicitation of history from patient, his wife and his brother who accompanied him, reported that patient was apparently functioning well until 2 to 3 years ago when he had an episode of fever following which he started reporting complaints of weakness and anxiety. He reported that he was advised by the doctor to drink fluids, following which he initially started taking increased amounts of water per day and gradually the intake was raised to about 10 liters / day. He started feeling thirsty while talking or after micturition and there was a need to drink water after every five to ten minutes and also, after whenever he passed urine. He reported that he would feel anxious and irritable if he was unable to get water or if family would stop him from taking water. His appetite had decreased and he had suffered loss of weight over the period of 2 years and had thoughts preoccupied with water intake. He would always keep a 2 liter bottle of water with him. He also lost interest in work and stopped going to work, citing weakness and fatigability all through the day as the reason for absenteeism from work. There was no history of sadness of mood or any other depressive symptoms. No psychotic symptoms could be elicited and no other obsessive thoughts, images or impulses or any other