A 62-year-old white female with a history of hypertension, which is well controlled, was found to have a new irregular density with microcalcifications on screening mammogram. Biopsy showed invasive mammary carcinoma of the ductal type. Tumor was grade 3, ER negative, PR negative, and HER2-neu negative by immunohistochemistry staining. She was diagnosed with stage IIA (T2, N0, M0) breast cancer. She has never smoked and has no history of drinking.
She underwent lumpectomy with sentinel lymph node biopsy. Her tumor measured 3.2 cm with negative margins. Lymph node biopsy was negative. She met the criteria for adjuvant chemotherapy treatment. She was enrolled in clinical trial BR003. The trial investigates the benefits of adding carboplatin to the standard chemotherapy in patients with triple-negative breast cancer in the adjuvant setting. She was planned to receive dose-dense adriamycin/cyclophosphamide for 4 cycles followed by weekly Taxol for 12 weeks plus carboplatin every 3 weeks for 4 cycles. She received 4 cycles of adriamycin 60 mg/m2 and cyclophosphamide 600 mg/m2 every 2 weeks for 4 cycles with pegfilgrastim support. She was then started on paclitaxel 80 mg/m2 with carboplatin adjusted for an area under the curve of 6 mg/mL/min.
She tolerated 6 cycles of weekly Taxol as well as 2 doses of carboplatin with the exception of mild neuropathy and mild cytopenia. Three days after her cycle 6 of Taxol, the patient presented to the emergency room with abdominal cramping and diarrhea for 1 day prior to admission. She also reported multiple episodes of large amounts of bright red blood with bowel movements. Her symptoms were associated with generalized weakness and fatigue. She denied any fever, chills, nausea, or vomiting. Evaluation upon hospitalization revealed stable vital signs with no fever. Abdominal examination revealed mild diffuse tenderness with no guarding or rebound tenderness.
Laboratory examination revealed normal white blood cells with absolute neutrophilic count