A 28-year-old woman presented for evaluation of painless swelling involving both lower extremities since birth. The swelling had been gradually progressive, initially affecting her feet but then involving calves, shin and lower thighs. She was noted to have painless swelling of both feet in her infancy. The swelling was prominent and involved calves and shin at the age of 10 years. During adolescence and early adulthood the swelling involved her lower thighs. The swelling was symmetric and equal in both lower extremities. Other than swelling, she did not have any other symptoms such as a history of weight loss or other constitutional symptoms. Her past medical history was unremarkable. She denied tobacco or alcohol use. She did not have known medication allergies. She had been evaluated by a few providers in the past without definitive diagnosis.
Physical examination revealed a normal-appearing young lady. She was afebrile with a heart rate of 70/min. Blood pressure was 116/76 mm Hg. Respiratory rate was 14/min. General examination revealed bilateral nonpitting pedal edema up to mid calves (fig. ). Otherwise, examination was normal, with no evidence of ascites, abdominal organ or lymph node enlargement. She did not have any cardiac murmurs or decreased air entry on chest examination.
She underwent detailed investigations to evaluate for the possible etiology of pedal swelling. A complete blood cell count, including a differential count, and basic metabolic profile, including renal function, was normal. Liver function tests including serum albumin and inflammatory markers such as sedimentation rate and C-reactive protein were unremarkable. An ultrasound of the lower extremities including Doppler did not show evidence of venous obstruction. Chest X-ray and an ultrasound of the abdomen and pelvis were normal. The patient underwent a radionuclide study (lymphoscintigraphy) to evaluate lymphatic drainage in the lower extremities. There was evidence of decreased uptake of radioactive tracer in proximal lymph nodes (inguinal nodes), suggesting impaired lymphatic drainage in the lower