A 70-year-old woman presented with shortness of breath and an increased production of purulent sputum over the previous 6 weeks. Her past medical history included several episodes of respiratory tract infections during childhood. The patient had no history of smoking or congenital heart disease. She had experienced a gradual decrease in exercise tolerance for 7 years. She was admitted to our clinic for an acute exacerbation of chronic obstructive lung disease. On admission, right-sided infiltrates and volume loss in the upper lobe were noted. A physical examination revealed the patient to be clinically septic and in moderate respiratory distress. Her blood pressure was 130/80 mm Hg, her pulse rate was 105 beats/min, her respiratory rate was 32 breaths/min and her temperature was 37.7°C. During the pulmonary examination, a visual inspection of the chest revealed intercostal indrawing. Auscultation revealed rales at the right apex. Her right hemithorax was dull to percussion and respiratory rates were diminished. The rest of the examination was unremarkable.
A coronal computed tomography (CT; fig. ) showed bronchiectatic consolidation with air bronchogram formation involving the anterior segment of the upper lobe of the right lung with a 70% loss of volume. The right deviation of the trachea was also demonstrated on the CT scan. Axial, sagittal and coronal oblique CT scans showed bronchiectasis in the right upper lobe (fig. , ) and a poststenotic dilatation of the right pulmonary artery with a diameter of 32 mm (fig. ). The CT scan also revealed compression of the superior vena cava between an ascending aortic aneurysm and the dilated right pulmonary artery (fig. , ). There was compression of the bronchus of the right upper lobe in the CT image. A volume-rendered three-dimensional (3D) CT angiography image showed an aneurysmal ascending aorta, right pulmonary artery kinking, poststenotic dilatation of the right pulmonary artery, and compression of the superior vena cava (fig. ). The 3