A 49-year-old male patient visited our clinic in December 2015 with a chief complaint of swelling of gums in the lower jaw. An informed consent was obtained from the patient for taking a detailed case history and treatment planning.
The patient had been a smoker (4–5 cigarettes per day) for the past 20 years. He was also using alcohol frequently. He was hypertensive and was under medication (nifedipine) for the past 5 years. He was also under the care of the Nephrology unit of a local hospital for interstitial nephritis for the past 5 years.
His dental history recorded periodic oral prophylaxis visits. He stated that he had noticed a small swelling on the gums on the inner surface of the lower anterior teeth for 3 months. He visited a local dentist who prescribed an antibiotic ointment (Metronidazole gel) for topical application. However, the swelling continued to increase in size and so he decided to consult a specialist and reported to our clinic. The patient did not have any pain which was the reason for the delay in asking for a second opinion about the swelling.
Periodontal evaluation showed that he had chronic generalized periodontitis. The lingual gingiva of mandibular anterior teeth revealed an exophytic growth of size 4 cm × 3 cm, firm in consistency and sessile. The surface of the lesion was irregular, with areas of ulceration []. Deep periodontal pockets of 6–8 mm [lingual aspect] and mobility of mandibular anterior teeth [incisors] were recorded. Bleeding on probing was present.
Extraoral examination revealed palpable, firm, mobile, and nodular submandibular lymph nodes on the left side. The patient was initially advised to take an intraoral periapical radiograph. Radiographic evaluation showed extensive bone loss in relation to tooth number 41, 31, 32, and 33 [].
Based on the patient's history, clinical and radiographic evaluation a provisional diagnosis of pyogenic granuloma was made with a differential diagnosis of SCC.
Nonsurgical periodontal therapy was