In August 2014, a 40-year-old female, never-smoker, presented to our institution with left shoulder pain. The patient provided written informed consent for the publication of her case details. Computed tomography (CT) revealed a primary mass lesion in the left lower lobe, multiple bilateral pulmonary nodules, and enlargement of mediastinal lymph nodes. Her head magnetic resonance imaging scan revealed several small metastatic nodules, the biggest in cerebellum. The isotope bone scans revealed many metastatic mass lesions in the spine, scapula, rib, nasal, and hip bone. A left supraclavicular lymph node surgical biopsy was conducted (size 1.5×1.5 cm), and the pathological diagnosis was adenocarcinoma (cT4N3M1ab according to the 7th AJCC/UICC tumor staging system) (), with EGFR exon 19 deletion proven using amplication-refractory mutation system assay () and ALK showing up as positive using Ventana immunohistochemistry (IHC) (). The metastatic lesions in the brain and bones are shown in . The main target lesion in the left lung prior to the treatment is shown in . The patient was administered gefitinib as first-line treatment at 250 mg qd in August 2014. Evaluation performed at 1 month revealed partial response across all lesions, with minimal disease burden at 7 months (). However, CT scan showed progression of the lung lesions after 8 months, because of several new lesions in both lungs ().
Ventana IHC has been approved by the China Food and Drug Administration in identifying patients who are eligible for treatment with crizotinib. Based on ALK overexpression assessed using Ventana IHC, the patient was switched to a combinatorial treatment consisting of gefitinib and crizotinib, an ALK inhibitor, in May 2015. The patient was still kept on gefitinib given that the main target lesions were still in control, indicating their lasting response to gefitinib. During the treatment, the patient showed no major adverse events; however, CT scan still showed slow progression ().