A 46-year-old white woman presented to the Hypertension and Nephrology Clinic with significant weight gain and edema. She reported concerns regarding her weight gain of 70 pounds over the last six months. She stated that she is an active person and believed her weight gain was primarily due to fluid retention. She received laparoscopic adjustable gastric banding in 2003, followed by an abdominoplasty in 2016. She reported she was doing well and lost a significant amount of weight after her surgeries until six months prior to presentation. She consulted her surgeon and endocrinologist, both of whom reassured her that her gastric band was intact without any complications. Since August of 2018, she has been taking furosemide 20 mg by mouth, once daily along with spironolactone 25 mg by mouth once daily. The patient has not found any significant improvement with these medications and reported oliguria. She denied any prior history of diabetes, hypertension, or kidney stones.
Her past medical history was significant for chronic idiopathic abdominal pain, varicose veins, and edema. Her surgical history begins in 1978 for a tonsillectomy, laparoscopic adjustable gastric banding and cholecystectomy in 2003, a bariatric bypass in 2009, a colonoscopy in 2013 followed by an abdominoplasty in 2016, and an esophagogastroduodenoscopy in 2018. Her family history is only significant for unspecified cancer in her father. The patient reports an allergy to latex and denies alcohol or tobacco use. She admits to smoking cannabis on rare social occasions. Her laboratory results and vital signs were unremarkable. However, her BMI was 33.39 kg/m2 as she was 68 inches tall and weighed 219 pounds.
She was referred to the Hypertension and Nephrology Clinic to assess whether her edema was due to any renal abnormalities or conditions. Patient’s lab work demonstrated that her kidney function was normal as all her electrolytes and creatinine levels were within the reference range. Given our patient had no heart failure, liver dysfunction, kidney dysfunction, malignancies