A 40-year-old female patient was admitted to our hospital with symptoms of paroxysmal chills, hot flashes, fatigue, anorexia and insomnia that had persisted for more than two months. During the past two months, the patient often experienced a sudden feeling of chills and fever with unknown causes despite normal body temperature, she reported a burning sensation, especially on her palms, and liked touching cool objects to relieve this burning sensation. In addition, the patient also reported insomnia, night sweats, and red rashes on the inside of her arms. These rashes did not cause itchiness and disappeared when pressed on or after about half an hour. There were intervals where all of these symptoms would also completely disappear. Other symptoms included fatigue, anorexia and weight loss (about 5 kg). Menstruation was normal over these two months. The patient was admitted to the Department of dermatology, endocrinology, traditional Chinese medicine, rheumatology and immunology at several large hospitals, but her condition did not improve.
The patient had previously been in good health with no reported history of hepatitis, tuberculosis, hypertension, and diabetes. She also reported no history of blood transfusion or food allergy. She had surgery related to her appendicitis about 6 months prior. The patient had received all the recommended vaccinations. Prior to the appearance of these symptoms the patient did not take any medications.
The patient is a resident of Nantong City (Jiangsu Province, China). She reported no history of alcoholism or smoking. She did not have contact with contaminated water.
The patient was at an appropriate age when married and reported that family relationships were harmonious. Her husband and child were healthy. The patient reported regular menstruation and no menstrual cramps. She gave birth to a son by caesarean section. There was no history of hereditary diseases in the family.
Upon physical examination, the patient’s temperature was 36.5°C and blood pressure was 110/