A 55-year-old male patient reported with mild swelling and pain in the left zygomatic region. The history of present illness revealed that the patient had noticed the swelling in the last few weeks and it also had an associated intraoral ulcer. The patient was a known diabetic who was under medication. He had a habit of smoking cigarettes for the past 15 years. He smoked almost 15 cigarettes per day. The clinical examination revealed a firm swelling in the left zygomatic region measuring approximately 3 cm to 5 cm. It was mildly painful on palpation. The left maxillary region had significant paresthesia, nasal obstruction, and episodes of pain. A palpable left submandibular lymph node was present, which was also tender and fixed. The cervical lymph node on the left side was also palpable (Figure ). The intraoral examination revealed an ulceroproliferative growth measuring 4 cm to 6 cm in dimension.
The lesion was extending in relation to teeth 23, 24, and 25. The ulcer was covered with necrotic slough. Purulent discharge and bleeding were present in the lesion. The other teeth in the quadrant were missing (Figure ). A panoramic radiograph revealed extruded teeth 23, 24, 25.
There was increased radiopacity in the left maxillary sinus (Figure ). Water’s view showed the opacification of the entire left maxillary sinus.
An intraoral extension of this mass was also evident. The inferior, posterior, lateral, and medial walls of the left maxillary sinus appeared to be destroyed (Figure ). A computed tomography (CT) scan showed a lesion extending into the maxillary space and the nasal cavity. A heterodense soft tissue lesion showing heterogeneous contrast enhancement in the left maxillary sinus and hard palate with the destruction of the posterolateral wall, medial wall, and floor of the left maxillary antrum, extending into the adjacent retro maxillary space and medially extending into the left nasal cavity, obliterating all meati with the destruction of nasal turbinates. It was also inferiorly