A 73-year-old woman presented to her family physician with an unexplained drop in weight from 90 to 65 kg in the last 5 months, upper abdominal pain and nausea, acholic stools, and jaundice. She had a history of depression, osteoarthritis, dyslipidemia, a previous laparoscopic cholecystectomy 15 years earlier, and a mesenteric venous thrombosis. She declared a smoking history of 23 pack-years, consumed less than 1 alcoholic drink per week, and denied any use of illicit drugs. The patient's family history was significant: her mother had gall bladder cancer and two maternal aunts had liver and lung cancers, respectively.
Two endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatographies (ERCPs) were performed which revealed a common bile duct stricture – a “fuzzy” possibly mass-like area in the adjacent pancreas – and a common bile duct stent was placed to relieve the obstruction. The stomach appeared unremarkable on standard and retroflex views. Further imaging determined that the “fuzzy” appearance of the pancreas was likely due to a perforation from the first ERCP and not a mass.
Three months later, following an episode of cholangitis, she underwent a choledochojejunostomy that revealed an unresectable pancreatic mass extensively infiltrating the root of the small bowel mesentery. A biopsy of the mesentery extension of the mass confirmed a well-differentiated adenocarcinoma. Imaging confirmed her disease as T4N1M0 adenocarcinoma of the uncinate process of the pancreas. Worsening symptoms suggestive of GOO led to another ERCP; it revealed no significant evidence of duodenal obstruction up to the fourth section of the duodenum so a duodenal stent was not placed.
As a result of her advanced disease the patient was referred for consideration of palliative radiotherapy to relieve her gastrointestinal symptoms. At that time she had lost an additional 6 kg in the past month, and was admitted to hospital with an Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) performance status of 3. She took regular venlafaxine