The patient is a 66 year old African American female with past medical history of primary hypertension, diabetes mellitus type 2, hyperlipidemia and ischemic cerebrovascular accident (CVA) with no residual weakness, presented to the cardiologist office with complaints of chest pain. The chest pain was left sided pressure, which was not exacerbated with exertion or relieved by rest. There was no association with position or food intake. She denied any exertional shortness of breath, palpitations, pedal edema, paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea or orthopnea. Family history was significant for premature coronary artery disease in the sister at a very young age. She consumed alcohol socially but denied smoking cigarettes and illicit drug use. On presentation to office, vital signs were stable. Cardiovascular exam revealed regular rate and rhythm. Apical impulse was not displaced. First (S1) and second heart sound (S2) were heard, no S3 or S4 were auscultated. No evidence of murmurs rubs or gallops. Rest of the exam was unremarkable. She was sent from the office to the emergency department. On arrival to emergency room (ER), the patient still had some chest pain. Sublingual nitroglycerin was administered, which improved her chest pain. Vitals were stable and there was no change in physical exam. She was admitted to the hospital for further evaluation of chest pain. Electrocardiogram demonstrated left axis deviation, no pathological q waves, and ST segment depression in anteroseptal and anterior leads. The patient had a nuclear stress test that showed reversible ischemia in apical and anteroseptal walls with an ejection fraction of approximately 61%. Cardiac characterization was performed, which revealed right dominant system with no significant disease, and multiple coronary cavernous fistulas from the diagonal and distal part of LAD filling into the left ventricle ( and ). There was no significant atherosclerotic disease noted in the coronary arteries. No acute intervention was deemed necessary at this point as we wanted to monitor the patient’s response to