A 78-year-old male presented in the emergency department with altered mental status. According to family, the patient was in normal state of health in the morning, talking with his grandchildren, but became progressively less responsive.
His medical history included Alzheimer’s disease and hypertension. He had no known drug allergies and was taking no medications. Social history was significant for heavy alcohol use in the past but quit many years ago, and no tobacco use. The family denied any past surgeries.
Upon arrival to the ED he immediately began vomiting large volumes of coffee ground emesis, total output was over one liter. After rapid intubation and nasogastric tube placement, an additional 500 mL of coffee ground emesis was collected. Physical exam revealed tachycardia, clear lung fields, soft and nontender abdomen, and warm dry skin. Central line was placed and IV Levophed maintained the patient’s blood pressure at 105/60 mmHg, pulse at 95 bpm.
The workup included clear chest x-ray and non-contrast computed tomography, which revealed extensive portal venous gas essentially filling the superior mesenteric vein, splenic vein, and entire portal venous tree (). Extensive intramural gas was seen in the stomach and portions of the visualized esophagus, however there was no intramural gas pattern noted in the small bowel and no free air (). This pattern combined with metabolic acidosis on arterial blood gas with a pH of 7.16 and lactic acid level of 12.9 lead to the diagnosis of septic shock due to ischemic bowel.
The patient was started on aggressive IV hydration, broad spectrum IV antibiotics, and pressors. In view of the presence of septic shock and unstable condition, a family meeting was held.
Despite the ominous signs of gastric and esophageal pneumatosis and portal venous gas, the decision was made to treat the patient nonoperatively. He recovered well on fluid resuscitation; lactic acid decreased to 4.0, hemoglobin was stable at 12.1 the following morning