A 55-year-old Hispanic female patient presented to the non-profit free medical health clinic with a chief complaint of left lower gingival mass for the past two weeks. It was associated with mild pain. The mass was friable, irregular and white. It had a cauliflower-like and rubbery consistency, and was gradually increasing in size. The patient did not report any fevers, chills, night sweats, or unintentional weight loss. The patient denied any recent dental or gingival trauma or infection, history of lifetime smoking or chewing tobacco, or similar symptoms in the past. The patient did not have a family history of tumor or carcinoma.
From the initial impression, the series of differential diagnosis consisted of 1) apical tooth infection-causing reactive granuloma formed over the adjacent gingiva 2) squamous cell carcinoma of buccal mucosa and, 3) benign hyperplasia of the gingiva. Since the clinic did not have an association with another non-profit dental clinic, various referral options were discussed with the patient, one of which included referral to a dental teaching institute. The patient did not have any health insurance and expressed reluctance to seek dental care outside of our non-profit free medical health clinic.
An otolaryngologist was contacted, who was willing to help at no cost to the patient. The patient consulted a surgeon, who recommended obtaining a biopsy of the mass for further evaluation. The biopsy showed squamous cell carcinoma of the alveolar ridge of the buccal mucosa. Following the biopsy results, the patient had a computerized tomography (CT) scan of the soft tissue neck with contrast to evaluate the extent of the malignancy (Figures , ).
Due to concerns of possible malignancy on an imaging study, the patient underwent wide excision of the left posterior alveolar mass with rim mandibulectomy and tooth extractions, left selective neck dissection and buccal flap.
During her postoperative follow-up appointment with the surgeon, the patient was noted to have one