A 30-year-old female presented to our hospital with the chief complaints of left flank pain and dysuria since 9 months. Patient had no complaints of fever or hematuria. There was a history of occasional tobacco chewing since the past 10 years. There was no relevant medical history or history of any surgical intervention. Physical examination was unremarkable apart from poor dental hygiene and some missing teeth. Laboratory investigations revealed normal hemoglobin level, total leukocyte count, kidney function tests, and viral markers. The routine urine examination was negative for red blood cells, white blood cells, protein, and glucose.
Transvaginal and transabdominal ultrasound scans revealed a 29 × 18 mm heterogeneously hyperechoic nondependent mass lesion [] arising from the right superior wall (dome) of the urinary bladder with multiple areas of calcification and dense posterior acoustic shadowing. Rest of the urinary bladder wall had normal thickness. Bilateral ovaries were normal in size and echotexture and were separate from the bladder wall []. Uterus was normal in shape, size, and echotexture. No fluid or collection was noted in the pouch of Douglas.
CT scan was performed and showed a 35 × 36 mm relatively well-defined heterogeneous mass lesion in the urinary bladder on the right side of the dome with multiple specks of calcification and internal discrete hypodense areas within the mass lesion (CT attenuation of fat) on noncontrast scans. Multiple linear strands of calcification were noted extending anteroposteriorly on both sides of the mass lesion. On postcontrast images, no enhancement of the mass lesion was noted. The mass lesion was protruding in the lumen and was also seen to extend laterally out of the bladder contour []; the lesion was close to but separate from the right ovary []. Rest of the urinary bladder was normal in outline and wall thickness. No fat stranding was noted in the surrounding areas. Few calcific foci were incidentally noted in the spleen alongwith left small kidney with a 22 ×