A 38-year-old man presented to the Department of Orthopedic Oncology of the First Affiliated Hospital of Nanchang University (Nanchang, China) with the chief complaint of a painless mass in the right lower limb that developed over a period of 16 years. The patient appeared projections without apparent inducement at the medial cutaneous right leg which was about 2 × 2 cm in size, fixed block, soft, clear boundary, all directions and passive activities were unlimited at the beginning. Physical examination did not reveal any abnormalities, and the results of routine laboratory tests, such as erythrocyte sedimentation rate, were within the normal range. Three years after the mass was first recognized, a biopsy conducted at the Jian City People’s Hospital, Jiangxi, China showed signs of NF. However, the patient did not report any obvious discomfort, and therefore, the physicians did not recommend further examination but only regular follow-up instead. By early 2012, the patient started to limp. The symptom relieved after walking for a long period; however, the patient subsequently experienced numbness over the skin of the right lower extremity. On July 9, 2013, the patient underwent debridement at a local hospital, wherein the pathology results showed inflammatory cell infiltrations along with ulcers. The treatment did not illicit a favorable response and the tumors were not completely removed. Multiple tumors extending from the right leg to the popliteal fossa, buttocks, and groin were observed, with the largest tumor measuring approximately 10 × 12 cm; knee function was acceptable and no localized tenderness was detected. On April 30, 2014, the patient underwent multiple suction lumpectomies. Postoperative pathological findings indicated multiple schwannomas. However, the patient was hospitalized again owing to a right thigh and groin mass that enlarged; the patient also reported discomfort and weakness in the right calf, and underwent multisite lumpectomy for the right lower limb. The intraoperative findings included irregular shaped masses in the nerves of the right hip, iliac spine, and right lower limb