We report the case of an 88-year old man with coexistence of descending TAA and AAA. The patient had a long medical history of arterial hypertension, coronary disease and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). He smoked about 20 cigarettes a day until 65 years old. At the age of 72 (in 2001) the patient had coronary artery bypass surgery. During coronary angiography in 2009 two drug-eluting stents were implanted in the anterior descending branch and right coronary artery. At the same time two aortic aneurysms were recognized (descending TAA with diameter 50 mm and AAA with diameter 42 mm) and kept under closed observation. In November 2012 when our patient was 84 years old the endovascular repair of abdominal aortic (54 mm) and left iliac common artery (25 mm) aneurysms with the implantation of a bifurcated Gore Excluder stent graft was performed. Preoperative echocardiography revealed akinesia of the inferior wall basal segment and lateral wall middle segment, with left ventricular ejection fraction (EF) = 47%. The essential aberrance in the preoperative laboratory test was thrombocytopenia with platelet level 96 000/ml. However, the endovascular aortic repair was successful and the patient was discharged on the fifth postoperative day. During subsequent hospitalization in January 2013 the TEVAR procedure of a 58 mm × 70 mm descending, angulated TAA aneurysm was performed. Two segments of Zenith TX2 TAA endovascular graft 40 mm in diameter were introduced through the right femoral approach. The proximal segment, 162 mm long, started just below the left subclavian artery. The distal segment, 198 mm long, overlapped partially the proximal one and finished over the diaphragm where the aorta ran at a right angle to the spine. There were no perioperative complications and the patient was discharged on the sixth day after TEVAR.
In 2013 and 2014 control spiral CT scan confirmed complete exclusion of the aneurysm sac. The next examination performed in December 2015 revealed excessive type III endoleak due to disconnection of proximal and distal stent graft segments in the