A 68-year-old Asian man with no smoking history was diagnosed with right lower lobe lung adenocarcinoma with multiple osseous metastases but without brain metastasis in October 2014 when he presented with severe back pain. Molecular study of a tissue biopsy revealed EGFR mutation L858R, sensitive to EGFR TKIs. Treatment with gefitinib, a first-generation TKI, was initiated in November 2014. The patient tolerated therapy well and exhibited an excellent clinical response until November 2015 when he started to experience progressive worsening of lower back pain and bilateral lower extremity weakness. Imaging studies demonstrated disease progression, and thus re-biopsy of the right lower lobe lesion was performed to search for a T790M mutation, the most common molecular abnormality responsible for resistance to targeted therapy. Somewhat surprisingly, biopsy sample mutation studies again demonstrated EGFR L858R but without a T790M mutation. The patient declined systemic cytotoxic chemotherapy and palliative radiation to the lumbar spine metastasis, but continued with gefitinib.
The patient transferred his care to our center at the end of January 2016. Unfortunately, he continued to deteriorate clinically and developed intractable lower back pain and bilateral lower extremity weakness, but no incontinence. Repeat magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the spine showed metastases at multiple levels involving the thoracic, lumbar, and sacral spines without compromise of the central canal or compression of the spinal nerve roots. The patient received urgent palliative radiation of 35 Gy in 14 fractions from T7-S2 spine, demonstrating a favorable symptomatic response. The patient was subsequently hospitalized for persistent confusion, generalized fatigue, anorexia, and failure to thrive. Neurological examination revealed mental status changes, but no focal neurological deficits. MRI of the brain demonstrated extensive leptomeningeal carcinomatosis (Fig. ), which was believed to be the cause of his symptomatology. In view of the previous failed attempt to identify a T790M mutation via tissue biopsy, a liquid biopsy was undertaken which revealed an EGFR T790M mutation. Osimertinib 80 mg p