A 64-year-old man presented in the urology outpatient department hospital with painless swelling on the glans penis for the past 2 months along with bleeding from the mass. There was no history of urethral discharge or any urinary complaints. The patient was a chronic smoker and had undergone angiography for coronary artery disease 1 month back. However, there was no history of any local trauma or other comorbidities.
Local examination of the penile lesion revealed a lesion arising out of the meatus, at the tip of the glans, measuring 3 cm × 2 cm []. The meatus was visualized and partially obliterated and bled on touch. There was no induration beyond the lesion. The penile shaft was normal. Multiple bilateral inguinal lymph nodes were palpable each measuring <1 cm in size, firm in consistency, and mobile. The provisional diagnosis of carcinoma penis was made.
Complete blood count and biochemical investigations were within the normal limits, except for eosinophilia (13%). The patient's serum was nonreactive for HIV and hepatitis B surface antigen. The routine urine examination showed field full of red blood cells and 2–4 pus cells. On contrast-enhanced computed tomography abdomen, a simple cortical cyst in the right kidney was noted; otherwise, no renal or bladder mass was seen.
Wedge biopsy of the penile lesion was taken under aseptic conditions. Histopathology showed partly ulcerated keratinized stratified squamous epithelium covered by dense fibrinous exudates and subepithelium showed a proliferation of endothelial cells with mild-to-moderate nuclear enlargement and having a moderate amount of eosinophilic cytoplasm [Figure and ]. Occasional mitotic figure (<1/10 high power field) was noted; however, no atypical mitosis was found. There was mild-to-moderate inflammatory infiltrate composed of eosinophils, lymphocytes, and neutrophils []. Few areas also showed interconnecting vascular channels; however, those were lined by endothelial cells with the same morphology as described above. The immunohistochemical examination showed immunoreactivity for CD