We present a case of a 73-year-old male with a history of alcohol use and smoking, arterial hypertension, diabetes mellitus type 2, hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, and Bence Jones monoclonal gammopathy with no surgical or trauma history. He presented to the emergency department with symptoms of abdominal distention and pain for 48 h as well as several months of watery diarrhea and defecation urgency. Physical examination revealed abdominal distension with shifting dullness and a positive fluid wave as well as a palpable mass on the left flank. He was admitted to the General Medicine Service for detailed investigation. Abdominal ultrasound revealed large volume abdominal ascites and portal vein in the high limit of normality []. Paracentesis was performed which was negative for malignant cells. Serum-ascites albumin gradient was 15 g/L, which indicates portal hypertension as the origin of ascites. Blood tests revealed normal tumor markers except an elevation of CA-125. Computed tomography (CT) abdomen and pelvis with contrast showed wall thickening of the descending and sigmoid colon with edematous wall and extensive collateral formation in the inferior mesenteric artery (IMA) territory []. Optical colonoscopy revealed edema in the left colon corresponding to the wall thickening seen on CT scan, but no mass lesions were seen endoscopically, and no biopsy was performed []. CT angiography of the abdomen and pelvis confirmed a large arterial malformation involving the IMA [].
Treatment was initiated with diuretics, and the patient had a slight improvement in symptoms. Subsequently, the patient underwent selective microcoil embolization of IMA branches supplying the splenic flexure, descending colon and sigmoid, selectively excluding the superior hemorrhoidal artery []. After embolization, there was a significant decrease in the size of the palpable mass on physical examination. The patient was observed postembolization for pain management followed by laparotomy 24 h later. Intraoperative findings revealed 3 litres of ascites as well as a swollen left colon with swollen epiploic appendices and a very congested mesentery obliterating retroperitoneal planes. A large draining vein within the transverse