We report a case of a 57 year old male with metastatic melanoma who developed multiple severe immune related adverse effects attributed to pembrolizumab including arthritis, ocular hypotony and pulmonary fibrosis. Four years ago, he was diagnosed with cutaneous melanoma of the upper back measuring 4 mm in thickness associated with ulceration and two positive sentinel lymph nodes. The pathological staging was pT4bN2a. This was treated with wide local excision and regional lymph node clearance. The patient's medical history includes deep vein thrombosis and depression. He is a non-smoker. He did not receive adjuvant treatment and was monitored clinically.
Two years later, he developed metastatic recurrence with cutaneous nodules of melanoma and Positron Emission Tomography (PET) scan demonstrated fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) avid intrathoracic and intraabdominal lymphadenopathy. Archival tissue analysis did not demonstrate mutations in BRAF gene. He was treated with pembrolizumab (200 mg IV every 3 weeks) and attained complete metabolic response on subsequent PET scans after 3 months of treatment. He continued to receive maintenance pembrolizumab for a total of 32 doses until cessation. After the first 3 months of treatment, he developed arthritis predominantly affecting the small joints of the hands bilaterally, which was associated with mild functional impairment. However, this responded well to low dose glucocorticoids (prednisolone 5 mg daily). The patient was also noted to have developed grade 1 asymptomatic pneumonitis findings on chest CT imaging after 12 months of treatment. These findings were not present at baseline and monitored on serial scans.
After 20 months of treatment and 2 weeks after his last dose, the patient developed reduced vision in the right eye with visual acuity down to <20/200. This was preceded by a work-related blunt trauma injury to his right eye 1 week prior. He was referred to a tertiary eye hospital and exploratory surgery performed excluded a globe rupture. Ophthalmological examination revealed profound ocular hypotony (0 mmHg in right eye) with minimal inflammation. His left vision remained unaffected at this time. Multiple tests