In March 2011, a 57-year-old asymptomatic male smoker was admitted to our hospital because of a left lung mass (Fig. A and B). After obtaining the patient's informed consent, a radical resection of left upper pulmonary carcinoma and mediastinal lymph node dissection by thoracotomy were performed. Histopathologic examination showed a 2.0 × 1.5 cm middle to well differentiated adenocarcinoma in left upper lobe (Fig. C). Eighteen resected lymph nodes were detected and were all negative. The patient did not undergo postoperative chemotherapy. However, in November 2012, B ultrasound revealed a left axillary lymph node enlargement and the chest computed tomography (CT) scan revealed multiple nodules on the left pleural, both were considered to be metastases at first. After obtaining the patient's informed consent, a resection of the enlarged left axillary lymph node was performed. Histopathologic examination showed a metastatic poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma (Fig. D). The patient was initially treated with cisplatin, pemetrexed disodium, and bevacizumab with good response. In March 2013, molecular (EGFR/ALK) testing using FISH was carried out on tissue procured from the enlarged left axillary lymph node. The patient was found to be ALK-positive with EGFR wild-type and crizotinib was therefore administered orally at a dose of 250 mg twice a day. The treatment was well tolerated and CT of the thorax revealed a good response that the number and the size of all the lesions did not increase. After 2 years of crizotinib therapy, however, the patient got a headache and cranial magnetic resonance imaging revealed multiple lesions in the brain which were considered to be metastases at first (Fig. A and C). Considering the disease progressed, the treatment of crizotinib was eventually discontinued. Treatment with orally administered ceritinib at a dose of 450 mg/d was initiated after crizotinib treatment. The patient responded well to ceritinib as demonstrated by cranial MRI that the lesions in the brain decreased significantly (Fig. B and D