A 63-year-old male (an ex-smoker that quit 20 years ago, with smoking history of 15 pack-years) was referred to our outpatient clinic with NSCLC diagnosis to assess treatment options. The tumour was located in the right lung and spread to the mediastinal and supraclavicular lymph nodes. The lesion was detected in the chest CT (April, 2015) performed due to recurring mild exertional dyspnoea, decrease in exercise tolerance and dry paroxysmal cough. On histopathological examination of mediastinal lymph nodes biopsy obtained at mediastinoscopy and the right supraclavicular lymph nodes from fine-needle biopsy metastatic lung adenocarcinoma (TTF1+, Napsin A+) was diagnosed (June, 2015). The patient denied any weight loss. His medical history included mild prostatic hyperplasia, past lithotripsy due to urolithiasis, and in his youth hepatitis A. He is a farm worker.
The results of laboratory testing were within normal limits. The chest CT revealed suspicious additional changes in the lung parenchyma as well as bone lesions suggestive of metastases. In PET scan distant metastases were ruled out, however, due to significant regional spread of tumour (stage IIIB) the patient was not eligible for radical radiotherapy. In parallel to the staging procedures, the status of EGFR activating mutations was assessed and the exon 19 deletion was detected. The patient was therefore started on afatinib 40 mg QD.
After 4 weeks of treatment the patient presentedwith a facial rash (grade 1). After 12 weeks of treatment diarrhoea ensued, however, the patient remained professionally active. Diet modification and loperamide as needed were advised. In the chest CT performed after 12 weeks of treatment there was a partial tumour response. With no laboratory abnormalities, the patient continued therapy for 12 months. The rash with no need of treatment persisted.
In August 2016 the patient experienced a pathological vertebral fracture with no evidence of lung cancer progression on chest imaging and no evidence of disease progression in the brain MRI. However, a few