A 67-year-old man was referred to our hospital due to abnormal finding on chest CT performed outside the hospital during health screening. He had no significant symptom. He was a former smoker with 100 pack years. All laboratory findings were within normal limits. CT scan performed outside the hospital revealed a 3.2 cm, irregular, enhancing cavitary mass, which consisted of cavity and consolidation within a single lesion in the right lower lobe (Fig. A–D). There was no evidence of mediastinal lymph node enlargement on the chest CT. The patient was admitted to our hospital to investigate the pulmonary lesion. Positron emission tomography-computed tomography (PET-CT) revealed significant uptake of 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) by the cavitary mass (SUVmax = 8.3), which indicated a probability of lung cancer. There was no significant difference in FDG uptake between the cavity and the area of consolidation within the lesion (Fig. ).
The patient underwent a right lower lobectomy. As shown in the CT image, the lesion revealed areas of cavity and consolidation. Pathologic results showed that adenocarcinoma (moderately differentiated) and pulmonary tuberculosis coexisted within the lesion (Fig. ). The consolidation was confirmed as due to adenocarcinoma, and the cavity was confirmed as due to pulmonary tuberculosis. In addition, there was evidence of adenocarcinoma at the borderline between the consolidation and cavity. After AFB staining, the pulmonary tuberculosis was confirmed as active tuberculosis.
The size of the lung adenocarcinoma was 2 cm and lymph node metastasis was absent. Thus, a diagnosis of stage Ib lung cancer was made. A recent study showed that adjuvant chemotherapy is not recommended for routine use in patients with stage Ib lung cancer after complete resection,[ and therefore, we did not perform adjuvant chemotherapy. Additionally, the patient had active pulmonary tuberculosis within the same mass. Usually after surgery for pulmonary tuberculosis, post-operative anti-tuberculosis medication is necessary for at least 12 months.[ Accordingly, our patient was administrated