A 45-year-old man was admitted in the hospital as he complained of dizziness and blurred vision on November 8, 2017. The patient was diagnosed with glioma in right frontal lobe and received tumorectomy 19 years ago. After surgery, he underwent whole brain irradiation plus focal irradiation over 14 times in half a month. He had a history of stroke 13 years ago presenting with left limb weakness. The exact mechanism of stroke was not confirmed. Assessment of intracranial arteries was not performed and antiplatelet drugs were not prescribed. The patient had no history of hypertension, diabetes mellitus, dyslipidemia, coronary artery disease, atrial fibrillation, smoking and alcohol abuse. Family history of stroke was not identified. The patient did not take any secondary prevention measures for cerebrovascular disease. At admission, neurological clinical examinations were normal except bilateral left hemianopia. The score of National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale (NIHSS) was 0. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) showed acute infarcts in temporal lobe and occipital lobe (Fig. ).
In order to identify the cause of stroke, blood tests including blood routine examination, glucose, serum lipid, liver and renal function, coagulation, syphilis, HIV, auto-immune screen and thrombophilia were performed and results were normal. Electrocardiography and echocardiography were negative and cardiogenic cerebral embolism was excluded. In cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) examination, level of albumin and IgG were elevated (ALB = 740 mg/l, IgG = 69 mg/l). By MRI, multiple cerebral microbleeds (CMBs), lacunar infarcts in the brainstem and acute infarcts in temporal lobe and occipital lobe were found (Fig. ). With the use of magnetic resonance angiography (MRA), we found that bilateral posterior cerebral artery originated from the bilateral internal carotid artery. And multiple localized stenosis in right middle cerebral artery and left posterior cerebral artery. We believed that right posterior cerebral artery was the responsible vessel of acute stroke. HR-MRI examination showed vascular inflammatory changes in multiple cerebral arteries, especially in the right