A 55-year-old male patient reported to the department of periodontology, with the chief complaint of growth in the lower left front teeth region for past 5–6 months. The patient was absolutely normal 5–6 months back. The growth was painless in nature. The patient did not give any significant medical history. The past dental history of the patient includes extraction of a tooth 1 year back. The patient also gave a history of smoking 4–5 cigarettes per day for 20 years. The patient was not under any medication for chronic illness. On extraoral examination, no abnormalities were detected, and the regional lymph nodes were not enlarged and palpable.
Intraoral examination revealed calculus deposits with generalized stains over teeth. Cervical abrasion was present in relation to 22 and 23 []. Generalized gingival melanosis was present. Homogeneous, nonscrapable grayish-white patch was present on the left buccal mucosa extending from second premolar region till third molar region suggestive of homogenous leukoplakia. The diffuse grayish-white appearance was seen on palate suggestive of smoker's palate []. A fibrotic gingival overgrowth was present lingually in relation to 32, 33, 34 which was about 1.2 cm × 1 cm in size, extending from mesial margin of lateral incisor to mesial margin of first premolar []. It was firm in consistency having smooth surface and regular border.
On the basis of chief complaint, the past history, and the clinical features, a provisional diagnosis of gingival fibroma associated with leukoplakia was given.
An intraoral periapical radiograph of the involved site revealed no bony lesion. After phase one therapy, excisional biopsy of the lesion was done and excised tissue was sent for histopathological analysis []. The histopathological report revealed irregular surface epithelium with parakeratotic nature showing some areas of keratin plugging with proliferative changes. The underlying connective tissue was fibrous in nature without much inflammatory changes suggestive of PVL [].
On the basis of above investigations,