A 52-year-old male patient reported to Department of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery with a history of ulceroproliferative lesion involving the lower lip for the last 5 months. He had a habit of smoking 15 cigarettes/day for last 12–13 years and had habits of alcohol consumption 2–3 times a week for last 10 years. The lesion extended from left commissure of mouth upto midline of lower lip involving the labial and buccal mucosa till left 1st molar region []. The oral hygiene was a bit compromised and foul odor was present. The ipsilateral Level IB (Submandibular) group and Level IA (Submental) group of lymph nodes were palpable, enlarged, and not fixed to underlying structure. The provisional diagnosis of malignant neoplasm was made which was confirmed by incisional biopsy which was suggestive of moderately differentiated type of squamous cell carcinoma.
Magnetic resonance imaging and contrasted computed tomography were the preferred radiography to rule out the extent of lesion in soft and hard tissue, respectively. The infiltration was seen deep into the orbicularis muscle and part of buccal mucosa; however, no bony erosions were noted. The patient was informed about his condition, and surgical procedure was explained enumerating the possible risks and complications of it before surgery. Informed consent for the use of photographs relating to the case, for medical, scientific, or educational purposes, was likewise secured. The ethical committee approval was taken from the local institutional ethical committee approval board.
Under general anesthesia, the patient was subjected to the left side supraomohyoid neck dissection and full thickness excision of lower lip with safe margins of 1 cm. The defect was reconstructed with Karapandzic flap. The flap consists of a horizontal incision along the lower border of the defect in the mentolabial sulcus and bilateral perioral incision in nasolabial fold []. The neurovascular bundle was preserved to maintain flap viability. When sufficient mobilization has been accomplished, the flaps were medially oriented to allow closure in 3 planes,