A 60-year-old man with no significant past medical history came to emergency department (ED) complaining of dry cough and fever (between 39 and 40°C) for 1 year and 6 months of evolution. During that period the patient had a significant history of night sweats and weight loss (25 pounds). He denied travels, contact with sick patients, tobacco smoking, chest or abdominal pain. Physical findings included a chronically ill, cachectic patient with bilateral basilar rhonchi on auscultation and no lymphadenopathy. Prior to ED arrival, he had an extensive outpatient work up due to persistent fever which included; chest x-ray, chest and abdomen–pelvic CT scan, CBC, blood culture, urine culture, tuberculin skin test, RPR, hepatitis B and C serology, serum complements, ANA, RF and serum immunoglobulin levels (IgA, IgG, IgM). All of these laboratories yielded normal results and imaging studies did not show lung infiltrates, mass or nodules. Additionally HIV was negative and CD4 count (980 cells/mm3) was normal. Patient continued with fever and developed dry cough 3 months after initial laboratories, reason for which chest x-ray was repeated. At that moment he was diagnosed with pneumonia and received antibiotic therapy with levofloxacin for 7 days. There was mild interval improvement, but after antibiotic therapy was completed his symptoms came back. Three weeks later after antibiotic therapy bronchoscopy for acid-fast bacilli, bacteria, fungi culture and staining was performed due to unresolved pneumonia. No organism growth or positive staining was reported neither by pathology nor by microbiology laboratory. Negative results lead to the suspicion of cryptogenic organizing pneumonia treated with prednisone 60 mg daily for ~5 weeks without success and corticosteroids were tapered down. In fact, symptoms worsened with high grade fever (40°C) and it is at this point when he arrives to ED. Patient was admitted to the hospital and chest CT scan was performed revealing a new anterior paramedi