A 60-year-old male presented to the Bay Regional Medical Center with a history of fatigue lasting for several days, a 20-lb weight loss over the past 2 months, one episode of painless hematuria, and persistent headache for the past several weeks. He denied any diplopia, blurry vision, nausea, emesis, weakness, abdominal pain, blood in stool, cough, shortness of breath, alcohol use, drug use, or tobacco use. On physical examination, there was a slight bony defect noted on the lateral aspect of his right supraorbital ridge consistent with the prior resection of a temporal teratoma. His past medical history includes the surgical removal of a benign temporal teratoma and a teratoma in the right knee at the ages of 2 and 30 years, respectively. He has a family history of breast cancer in his mother and maternal grandmother. CT imaging of the head with contrast showed multiple lesions in the right frontal lobe suspicious for malignancy. CT scans of the chest, abdomen, and pelvis were negative for any primary tumor source. The patient was subsequently admitted to St. Mary's of Michigan, where laboratory testing were done including comprehensive metabolic panel, complete blood count, and liver function tests which were all within normal limits.
An MRI with contrast was obtained to further characterize the brain lesions and showed 4 lesions with diameters of 2.6, 1.0, 1.8, and 0.9 cm as well as vasogenic edema and an anterior midline shift of 9 mm (Fig. ). Bone scan, scrotal duplex ultrasound, urine cytology, and diagnostic cystoscopy were all negative for any evidence of malignant processes. Three days after admission, the patient underwent diagnostic and therapeutic right frontal craniotomy for the resection of the largest mass (2.6 cm in diameter) in the right frontal lobe. The operation was successful in obtaining a gross total resection, and his recovery from surgery was uneventful. Pathologic analysis revealed the mass to be a moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma staining HER-2