An 81-year-old woman was referred to the emergency department from the nephrology office for low blood pressure. She had nausea and occasional episodes of vomiting, and also reported metallic/salty taste in her mouth and a low appetite which she attributed to the use of spironolactone she had been taking for a month. She had an aortic valve replacement surgery four months back after which she went into respiratory, hepatic and renal failure, and disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC). The hepatic failure resolved, but she had not been feeling well and had been since living at home with her son who helped her with most of her activities. For the past six months, she had been having alternating constipation and diarrhea and also lost about 40 pounds during this time; however, she denied any fever, dysphagia, odynophagia, abdominal pain, melena, and hematochezia. She also had a temporary episode of facial drooping and swaying to the left side four to five days back, where she did not go to the emergency department but was started on aspirin by her primary care physician. She had a history of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), hypertension, high cholesterol, hypothyroidism, paroxysmal atrial fibrillation, hysterectomy, tonsillectomy, adenoidectomy, and cataract surgery. She quit smoking two months back after smoking one pack daily for the past 60 years, and had a glass of wine daily.
On presentation, she appeared thin and cachectic, with a temperature of 98F, blood pressure of 117/65, and a normal pulse, respiratory rate and pulse oximetry. On cardiovascular examination, there was a mechanical aortic valve click and +1 dorsalis pedis pulse. Abdominal examination revealed a bruit on auscultation, positive bowel sounds and there was no organomegaly or any abnormal mass on palpation, while the rest of her systemic examination was unremarkable. On presentation, we suspected medication side effect due to spironolactone as the patient started taking it a month ago,