A 63-year-old male patient (180 cm, 75 kg, retired office worker, Korean) was admitted with the chief complaint of necrosis of the left thumb. He was healthy and a non-smoker with no underlying disease, including vascular disease, diabetes, or hypertension and family history. One week before admission, he visited a private clinic because of a cold, and received an injection of diclofenac sodium (OS-beta, Unimed®) 90 mg in the left wrist. He developed numbness and severe pain in the distal part of the wrist immediately upon receiving the injection, as well as hypesthesia in the thumb and index finger after several hours. On the following day, he developed swelling and cyanosis of the thumb and index finger. Necrosis of the distal end of the thumb started developing from the third day after the injection. Subsequent ultrasonography at another hospital indicated reduced blood flow to all fingers of the left hand and no measurable blood flow in the left thumb. Consequently, the patient was prescribed beraprost 40 mg twice a day. Even though he was taking the medication, his symptoms and necrosis worsened, and he visited our hospital after becoming aware of the possibility of needing an amputation. At the time of admission to our hospital, necrosis from the interphalangeal joint to the distal end on the left thumb was observed and an injection mark was visible in the proximal portion of the radial styloid process (). But there was no abnormality in the patient’s laboratory data. Strong pulse was palpable in the proximal portion of the radial styloid process of both wrists, but not where the radial artery is generally located. Variation in the superficial dorsal antebrachial artery was identified on angiographic CT (). After confirming the boundary of the necrotic area, the proximal phalanx was amputated. Thumb reconstruction was not performed because the patient chose not to undergo the procedure.
Written informed consent was obtained from the patient for publication of this case report and