A 49-year-old man presented to the cognitive and memory disorder outpatient clinic for work up of rapid cognitive decline. Patient’s family reported that his symptoms started with confusion, memory, and language impairment (naming errors and comprehension difficulties) 5–6 months prior to presentation. Soon after developing cognitive impairment, he developed gait abnormalities and action tremor. The symptoms were worsening. His decision-making became impaired and he had to retire from work 1 month after the onset of his symptoms. His medical history was remarkable for childhood dyslexia and lymphoma treated with chemotherapy more than a decade ago. There was no family history of neurological disorders. He was a former smoker with no history of alcohol or drug use. There was no recent travel history. The patient has never had any neurosurgical or ophthalmological procedures done.
On the initial evaluation, the patient was alert and awake but only oriented to person. He appeared emotionally labile and demonstrated frequent verbal and motor perseverations, echolalia, and echopraxia. Processing time was prolonged. Working memory and visuospatial functions were impaired and he had difficulty with object naming and recognition. General neurologic examination did not demonstrate myoclonus or other types of adventitious movements. His muscle tone was normal and gait evaluation demonstrated mild ataxia. Deep tendon reflexes were brisk throughout.
The patient had two magnetic resonance imaging (MRIs) of the brain performed: the first, 1 month into the disease and the second, 5 months later. Both brain scans demonstrated restricted diffusion in a gyral pattern along the cortical gray matter in bilateral parietal and occipital lobes, with lesser involvement of prefrontal cortical gray matter. Primary motor and sensory cortices were spared. There were mild signal changes in the corresponding regions on fluid attenuation inversion recovery (FLAIR) sequences. There were no signal changes in subcortical structures and no gadolinium enhancement present. Fluorodeoxyglucose-positron emission tomography (FDG-PET) scan of the brain showed diminished metabolism, predominantly