A 47-year-old man was undergoing treatment for severe asthma with high-dose inhaled corticosteroid and long-acting β2 agonist, along with frequent systemic steroid burst twice or more a month. He was a 1.25 pack-year ex-smoker. As symptoms were poorly controlled despite maximal pharmacological treatment, he was admitted to our hospital for BT. Blood testing showed an elevated level of immunoglobulin E at 477 U/mL, and the white blood cell count was 9750/μL with 1.0% eosinophils under administration of 20 mg of prednisolone. Only mild thickening of the bronchial walls in the lower lobe was seen on chest computed tomography (CT).
The first two procedures were conducted at an interval of 3 weeks and contributed to the alleviation of asthmatic symptoms. Although he experienced complications of local bronchial oedema and small amounts of bloody sputum after each procedure, these resolved within 2 weeks.
The third procedure was performed with 5.4 mg of midazolam and 90 mg of propofol for intravenous anaesthesia for 82 min. The total number of activations was 110, comprising 61 in the left upper lobe bronchi and 49 in the right upper lobe bronchi. Daily pulmonary function tests and chest X-rays were performed to detect immediate adverse events after BT treatment.
On postoperative day 2, the patient showed hypoxaemia, and bilateral upper lobes appeared completely collapsed on chest radiographs (Fig. ). To prevent infection due to poor airway clearance in atelectasis, we initiated antibiotics and decided to continue prednisolone at 50 mg/day in order to quell the strong airway inflammation. Findings on chest radiographs did not show any changes for 4 days, but on postoperative day 6, a pulmonary cyst about 85 mm in diameter with air-fluid level suddenly appeared in the right upper lung field. Before we noticed this drastic change, the patient underwent a routine daily pulmonary function test, in which he experienced sudden right chest pain. Chest CT after this episode revealed a pulmonary cyst in the right middle lobe and right