A 57-year-old gentleman presented to the emergency department with a 1.5-week history of progressively worsening pain and swelling that began in left hand and progressed to second to fifth distal interphalangeal joints (DIP). Initially, he felt that his fingers started to feel numb, which went away as the day progressed. However, several days prior to presentation, he noted persistent numbness with new discoloration of his fingertips that began to worsen as well. Upon presentation to the hospital, his left ulnar pulse was not palpable, and his left second to fifth fingertips appeared deeply cyanotic with early gangrenous changes. He denied any other symptoms.
He had a past medical history significant for anxiety, depression, alcohol abuse and chronic back pain. He was an active smoker of about 16 pack-years. He also had a remote history of heroin and cocaine use, and his last relapse was documented over 10 years ago. He was a former truck driver who drove mostly with his left hand despite being right-hand dominant.
On examination, his left second to fifth fingertips appeared profoundly cyanotic with early gangrenous changes. His fingers were cool to the touch. He had decreased sensation in left hand and was unable to make a fist. His left radial pulse was palpable but the ulnar pulse was not. His physical exam including contralateral arm neurovascular exam was otherwise unremarkable. He had a Doppler signal in the distal ulnar artery and in the palmar arch. Duplex examination of the upper extremity revealed an acute occlusive thrombus of the left distal ulnar artery suggestive of hypothenar hammer syndrome. He was taken for angiographic assessment.
Angiography from a right femoral retrograde approach revealed normal left upper extremity arterial tree with the exception of an ulnar occlusion at the wrist. The wire crossed the occlusion easily consistent with acute thrombosis. The deep arch and digital vessels reconstituted distally. Aspiration with a glide catheter yielded thrombus