A 65-year-old Asian male with past medical history of KD, hypertension, and hyperlipidemia, came for follow-up in the cardiology clinic following a recent hospital admission for inferior wall ST-elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI) in 2016.
The patient’s history of KD started as early as year 1956 when he was 6 years old. He developed an abnormal clinical symptom-complex characterized with fever and rash. None of his siblings developed similar condition. His condition was mistakenly diagnosed as scarlet fever as during that time KD was not yet described. The patient was informed several years later, that his childhood illness was actually KD. He was not on treatment for the condition.
His first myocardial infarction (MI) was in 2009, when he was diagnosed with an inferior wall STEMI (). Coronary angiogram revealed diffuse ectatic changes of all coronaries with no suitable lesion identified for angioplasty or stenting, therefore he was medically managed with dual antiplatelet therapy (DAPT) with aspirin and clopidogrel. His vascular lesions were typical for chronic Kawasaki vascular disease. Following discharge, he developed palpitations and frequent unifocal premature ventricular contractions (PVCs) exceeding 10,000 per 24 h. These symptoms were adequately controlled with metoprolol.
Echocardiography done 3 years later showed a left ventricular (LV) ejection fraction of 45%. Patient underwent a stress echo that showed stable inferior-posterior wall motion abnormality without new ischemic changes, accordingly the drop of LVEF was attributed to PVC mediated myopathy. Despite the high PVC burden, metoprolol adequately controlled his symptoms and his LV function remained stable for several years. The patient followed a healthy life style, exercised regularly, and never used any tobacco products. He had a normal physical exam with body mass index (BMI) of 27. Despite these healthy measures and compliance with optimum medical therapy, he developed acute inferior wall STEMI on April 2016, followed by another attack by the end of the same year (). Coronary angiogram showed severely ect