A 62-year-old gentleman who is known to suffer from hypertension, dyslipidemia, and hypothyroidism for the past 15 years, presented to the emergency room with complaints of high-grade intermittent fever with chills but no associated rigors for the past 2 days. He also complained of minimal abdominal discomfort in the right upper quadrant and rated the pain at 2 on a pain scale of 10. There was no radiation, no known aggravating or relieving factors associated with the pain. There was no history of any nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, other symptoms suggestive of urinary tract or respiratory tract infection. He was a chronic user of tobacco with a history smoking cigarettes amounting to 40 pack years over the last 40 years. He also consumes alcohol socially and gives no history of any intravenous (IV) drug abuse. His current medication history includes amlodipine 10 mg and lisinopril 40 mg once daily for his hypertension, levothyroxine 50 µg once daily for hypothyroidism and atorvastatin 20 mg once daily at night for dyslipidemia.
On general physical examination, the patient had no pallor, icterus, lymphadenopathy or edema. He was running a temperature of 102 °F (38.9 °C) and was tachycardic with a heart rate of 110 beats per minute. His blood pressure on the right upper arm was measured at lying down posture as 90/60 mm Hg. Upon abdominal examination, there was mild tenderness in the right upper quadrant with no guarding or rebound tenderness. Cardiac examination revealed no murmurs and respiratory system examination was unremarkable.
A working diagnosis of cholecystitis was made at this juncture, and further investigations were proposed to confirm the diagnosis. The blood testing results are summarized in . There was leukocytosis with 70% neutrophils, but liver function tests were normal. The patient underwent a CT abdomen with contrast. This identified an abscess in the right lobe of liver about 15 mm in diameter () with no evidence of any gallstones or other abnormalities. An