A 51-year-old Korean man with a past medical history of hypertension and hyperlipidemia was referred on Jan 7, 2014, to the Yonsei University Health System for treatment of a known GCT. The colonoscopic finding was an approximately 2.0-cm-sized, hard, rectal mass 10 cm above the anal verge (). Histopathology findings indicated a GCT composed of round tumor cells having abundant granular cytoplasm with no evidence of malignancy. The patient had no other symptoms when he visited a local hospital on December 13, 2013, for a screening colonoscopy. He had no specific family history, but his sister had had breast cancer. He had a 10 pack/yr history of smoking and a body mass index of 25.7 kg/m2.
On admission, the patient appeared well. The laboratory findings were all within normal limits. Although the computed tomography (CT) findings made us suspicious of T3 rectal cancer (), subsequent magnetic resonance imaging (demonstrated a probable submucosal rectal mass with mesorectal fat infiltration above 8 cm from anal verge (Rb), but without circumferential resection margin threatening, extramural vessel invasion, or regional lymph-node enlargement (). His chest x-ray showed neither active lung disease nor evidence of lung metastasis.
When we reviewed the English literature, we were able to find only a few cases involving a GCT that had extended to the level of the muscularis propria. Our colorectal team, including colorectal surgeons, oncologists, gastroenterologists, and pathologists, discussed an appropriate treatment for this rare case. Even though we first considered a low anterior resection and lymph-node dissection, we finally decided to perform a TEO, with which we had had plentiful experience for patients with early rectal cancer. The surgery was performed on January 14, 2014. The patient had an uneventful postoperative course and was discharged 6 days after surgery. Two weeks later, the patient visited our clinic, and the final pathology revealed that the tumor consisted of