A 33-year-old man presented with a 6-month history of insidious low back pain intermittently. Twenty days before admission to our hospital, his back pain was significantly aggravated, which caused him to have difficulty in walking and sleeping. He denied the history of systemic disease and trauma. Recently, the pain severely affected his life and work especially when movements. There was no history of exposure to TB, including his family. The patient had systemic TB symptoms and signs including night sweats and decreased appetite with weight loss and progressive low-grade fever. He admitted a history of smoking, alcohol consumption without drug abuse. Physical examination demonstrated there was no visible or palpable spinal deformity, but definite tenderness could be elicited over the spinous processes of the extensive lower thoracic vertebrae. Neurologic examination represented no specific findings including that his reflexes of knee and ankle were normal. Subsequently, muscle strength and tension of lower limbs were also normal, and the straight leg raise test was negative in bilateral lower limbs. No other positive findings were found on physical examination. Laboratory investigations revealed red blood cells count, hemoglobin level, and white blood cells count were all within a normal range in spite of high erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR, 48 mm/hour), high C-reactive protein (66.9 mg/L). TB antibody and purified protein in derivate of tuberculin (PPD) test and human immune deficiency viral infection (HIV) were negative, but the TB spot (T-Spot) test was positive. Besides, the result of bone marrow puncture and serum protein electrophoresis (SPE) were all negative. Other laboratory tests were within reference range.
During the hospitalization, the patient underwent thorough radiographic examinations.
Routine image analysis demonstrated normal chest X-ray and abdominal ultrasound evidenced normal findings. A thoracolumbar spine X-ray was unremarkable. Whereas further computed tomographic of whole spine images surprizing us, indicated multifocal diffuse lesions located in cervical, thoracic, lumbar, and sacral vertebrae