A 67-year-old male was referred to the Maxillofacial Unit after presenting to the Emergency Department with a facial swelling. Medically, the patient was fit and well, with a history of smoking 20 cigarettes per day and 20 units of alcohol per week. There was a soft, erythematous swelling of the right cheek measuring 3 × 3 cm. It was painful, without a discharging punctum and had features of an infected sebaceous cyst. The patient was not complaining of dysphagia and was systemically well. Intra-oral examination showed chronic periodontal disease and carious teeth but no sign of acute infection (Figs and ).
A diagnosis of an infected sebaceous cyst was formulated and arrangements made for incision and drainage under local anaesthesia. Unfortunately, the patient then left the department before treatment was undertaken. He returned 1-week later with the same complaint, when the lesion was drained and a review appointment made. A review at 1 week found the erythematous area to have increased in size, with the incision site now having an exophytic, indurated appearance. An urgent biopsy was undertaken and ultrasound scan arranged.
Histology showed a high grade adenocarcinoma with appearances unlikely to represent a primary adnexal carcinoma. The immunoprofile of the specimen suggested a metastatic deposit of a tumour originating in the gastrointestinal tract or pancreatico-biliary system. In light of this, a CT abdomen, thorax and pelvis was undertaken whilst a referral was made to a gastrointestinal surgeon. CT showed a large tumour of the lower oesophagus with multiple metastatic lymph nodes, bony metastasis in vertebrae L2 and lung metastases. Oesophageal biopsies confirmed an invasive adenocarcinoma, just superior to the gastro-oesophageal junction. Spinal decompression and stabilization was undertaken, in order to maintain quality of life, and he was discussed at the UGI MDT where it was decided that treatment would be palliative in nature. Radiotherapy involved five fractions to the lumbar spine and right cheek, before referral to a medical oncologist for palliative chemotherapy.