A 22-year-old male reported with a chief complaint of pain and swelling in the upper left tooth region for 9 months. The swelling involved the orbital floor. There was no compromise in vision of the left eye. The swelling was initially small in size measuring around 3 cm, which then gradually increased to the present size []. Pain started 9 months back, and it was associated with mobility of tooth. Pain was dull and intermittent in nature, aggravated while sleeping on left side and relieved spontaneously. The patient gave a personal history of smoking two cigarettes per day for the past 3 years.
Intraorally, the patient presented with a solitary, well-defined, sessile swelling on the left side of the palate measuring 5 cm × 3 cm in size extending from 23 up to 28 region, displacement of tooth to the buccal side was seen with respect to 27. There was grade II mobility with respect to 27 and 28 [].
On radiographic examination, orthopantomogram reveals displacement of 27 and 28, haziness of the left maxillary sinus along with loss of lamina dura; paranasal sinus view reveals break in continuity of superior wall of maxillary sinus. For determining the extent of the lesion, computed tomography (CT) scan and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) were performed.
CT scan revealed a large destructive lesion involving maxillary sinus and maxilla on the left side. Lesion involved alveolar process of maxilla involving hard palate with thinning and elevation of the left orbital floor along with destruction of wall of the maxillary floor. Lesion showed moderate heterogeneously enhancing mass. Small necrotic areas were seen, extended into the left nasal cavity. There was partial destruction of nasal septum and destruction of pterygoid plate on the left side []. The mass was extending in the left ethmoid sinus. Intraoral extension with mild destruction of zygoma is seen. Mass measured around 6.8 cm × 5.5 cm × 7.5 cm. Mucosal thickening was seen in left frontal and left ethmoidal sinuses