A 40-year old female patient reported with severe pain and burning sensation in her right buccal mucosa. Intra-oral examination revealed a white to blackish elevated lesion on the right buccal mucosa in the second and third molar region measuring about 4x5 cm in size. An extra-oral swelling was also evident, which appeared normal in color but was tender on palpation. During elicitation of detailed history from the patient, it was revealed that patient was tobacco chewer since last 20 years and had leukoplakia patch on the right buccal mucosa. An incisional biopsy was advised for the leukoplakia at a private dental hospital. However, immediately after the local infiltration into the buccal mucosa, the patient complained of severe pain and burning sensation at the site of injection. On investigation of the local anesthetic bottle, it was found that 2 to 3 cc of 10% formalin was injected accidently, as both solutions were stored in similar containers. Formalin container was placed on the operating table for fixation and transport of the biopsy sample. After recording the case history, administration of 2 mL dexamethasone injection, in and around the lesion, was one of the immediate measures taken to reduce inflammation. The extra-oral swelling was noted to increase progressively for the first 24 h, though pain reduced over a period of time. The patient was kept under strict supervision and monitored for any adverse cardiac or pulmonary event for 48 h. Medications prescribed included injection dexamethasone 8 mg twice a day (tapering doses: 8 mg once a day for 2 days and 4 mg once a day for 2 days), injection diclofenac sodium thrice a day to reduce pain, injection taxim 1 gm twice a day for 5 days, injection metronidazole 400 mg thrice a day for 5 days and oral rinses with 2% betadine solution to avoid development of any local infection. Patient was subject to liver and renal function tests and the findings were reported to be within the normal ranges.
After a period of 48 h of