A 65-year-old male was referred to our center for treatment of severe coronary artery disease. The patient had a medical history significant for extensive tobacco use, diabetes, hypertension, and peripheral arterial disease requiring an aorto-bi-femoral bypass, lower extremity bypass, and left carotid endarterectomy. He reported having intermittent right upper extremity numbness for over 5 years without weakness. After completion of the preoperative cardiac surgery evaluation, the patient underwent coronary artery bypass using his left internal mammary artery in addition to a saphenous vein graft to re-perfuse his left anterior descending and obtuse marginal coronary arteries, respectively. Prior to his operation, a left radial artery cannula was placed by an experienced anesthesiology staff for close hemodynamic monitoring. A 10 cm 20-gauge arterial cannula was placed under ultrasound guidance after the first attempt. There were no intra-operative issues with the arterial cannula, and it remained in place when the patient was transferred to the intensive care unit for recovery. On postoperative day 1, arterial cannula was discontinued, by first disconnecting the IV from pressure bag followed by immediate removal of the cannula and non-occlusive digital pressure for 5 min. The patient immediately complained of left-hand numbness and weakness. On examination, he had loss of left radial artery pulse and poikilothermia. Noninvasive vascular studies showed occlusion of the left radial artery, proximal peak systolic velocity (PSV) of 10 cm/s, and no distal flow at the wrist with absence of digital pressures (). There was a patent ulnar artery feeding the palmar arch and no other clinically significant lesions in the subclavian, axillary, or brachial arteries. After obtaining surgical consent, an emergent cut-down and open thrombo-embolectomy under local anesthesia and sedation was performed within 2 hours of initial consultation. A 5 cm fresh thrombus was removed via an arteriotomy and several passes of fogarty balloons. We elected to repair the arteriotomy with a bovine patch angioplasty. Although vein patch