A 75-year-old man with a history of hypertension, dislipidemia, smoke usage, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, mild chronic renal failure (creatinine 1.78 mg/dl), and myocardial infarction was previously treated using percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA), and was admitted to our Unit of Vascular Surgery. He complained of abdominal and lumbar pain for 3 days and was not responsive to medical therapy. He also reported a car accident 12 months before; however, the medical records for the hospitalization following the accident could not be obtained. Ultrasonography revealed a regular diameter of the abdominal aorta and the presence of a voluminous dilatation of the vessel on its left side below the renal arteries. His laboratory data were normal, without signs of infection.
An urgent computed tomography (CT) scan revealed the presence of a voluminous pseudoaneurysm (43×38 mm) arising from the left lateral wall of the infrarenal abdominal aorta, with a regular diameter of the aorta (antero-posterior (AP) diameter=18 mm), and diffused calcifications of the arterial wall (). Another small pseudoaneurysm arising from the posterior aortic wall was also observed (). No signs of active bleeding were present during the CT scan. The diameter of the proximal aortic neck was 18 mm; the diameter of the aortic bifurcation was 11 mm; the diameter of the iliac arteries was 5.6 mm on the right side and 6 mm on the left side in absence of tortuosity.
Our patient was considered to be at a high risk for undergoing open surgical repair because he presented with many comorbidities. Therefore, the surgeon opted for an endovascular treatment.
Under epidural anesthesia, the patient was submitted to the bilateral exposure of the common femoral arteries. Following the initial angiography, a predilatation of the left common iliac artery, which appeared larger than that of the right iliac artery at the CT scan, was essential before endoprosthesis deployment (). Through the left side, an aortomonoiliac endoprosthesis (23×