A 67-year-old man was admitted to out hospital because of a 5-month history of pain in his left ankle. Physical examination revealed partial limitation of motion of the left ankle joint. On palpation, a tender, subtle swelling on the anterolateral lower third of the patient’s left leg, just proximal to the ankle joint was noted. There was no palpable lymphadenopathy in the draining regional lymph nodes. The serum alkaline phosphatase, phosphorus, calcium, and uric acids levels were within normal limits. X-A 67-year-old man was admitted to out hospital because of a 5-month history of pain in his left ankle. Physical examination revealed partial limitation of motion of the left ankle joint. On palpation, a tender, subtle swelling on the anterolateral lower third of the patient’s left leg, just proximal to the ankle joint was noted. There was no palpable lymphadenopathy in the draining regional lymph nodes. The serum alkaline phosphatase, phosphorus, calcium, and uric acids levels were within normal limits. Xrays of the left leg with ankle revealed a poorly defined permeative osteolytic lesion in the distal third of the fibula. The tumor had mainly a metaphyseal location and extended into the epiphysis. This neoplasm occupied the medullary canal, breaking through the cortex and extending to surrounding soft tissue with slight periosteal new bone formation ().
Computed tomography (CT) and Magnetic Resonance (MRI) confirmed the presence of an osteolytic fibular mass, which was expanding the medullary canal, destroying the lateral as well as the medial cortex and involving the surrounding soft tissue (). A periosteal bone reaction was clearly Seen in CT. Magnetic resonance imaging of the lesion showed it to be hypointense on Tl-weighted image and heterogeneous on T2-weighted image with isoand hyper-intense areas. The histological diagnosis of leiomyosarcoma was made on the basis of an open incisional biopsy. The most direct approach to the distal Fibula was selected, the skin incision was also