An 83-year-old male patient had osteoarthritis for 7 years in the right knee, with no flexion contracture or highly varus and valgus deformity. Because of extreme pain, the patient underwent magnetic resonance imaging, which showed lesions in the medial femoral condyle cartilage in the weight-bearing region; the same findings were confirmed during the TKA operation (). He had previously undergone left primary TKA for incapacitating knee pain recalcitrant to conservative therapy at our hospital 25 months ago. We considered salvage procedures such as cartilage restoration procedure or high tibial osteotomy considering the size of the knee joint lesion and combined medical disease with age. However, we planned TKA since the patient complained of severe pain, and satisfaction was high on the contralateral side after TKA. He had been taking warfarin for paroxysmal AF. He had a smoking history of 1.5 packs per day for 32 years and cholecystectomy 2 years ago, but he had no specific medical history or history of peripheral vascular disease, being bed-ridden for a long period, or glucocorticoid usage. The patient had normal femoral, popliteal, and ankle pulses bilaterally on palpation. The ankle brachial index (ABI; right, 1.06; left, 1.04) and echocardiography showed no specific clinical manifestation. After 3 days of warfarin hold for perioperative bridging anticoagulation therapy, the patient’s international normalized ratio (INR) was 1.72. Enoxaparine sodium (40 mg Cnoxane; YooYoung Pharm co., Seoul, Korea) was administered to the patient. He underwent TKA under spinal anesthesia. TKA was initiated with a tourniquet inflated to a pressure of 300 mmHg, and the anterior parapatellar approach was used. The total blood loss for the procedure was 350 mL, which was measured by weighing the gauze plus the suction drain amount without the irrigating solution. The tourniquet time lasted for 96 minutes. No intraoperative complications were noted during the surgical procedure. Compressive dressing was applied on