A 70-year-old male with a history of smoking and hypertension was referred to our department due to acute onset of low output syndrome after inferior and posterior ST-segment elevation MI (STEMI) and the suspect of ventricular septal rupture. The patient came from other institution orotracheal intubated. Physical examination reveals a Grade 3–4/6 Levine holosystolic murmur on left sternal side and a reduced pulmonary sound. The ECG showed a ST segment elevation and Q waves in the inferior leads in association with ST-segment depression in V2–V6 []. The blood tests reported positivity of high sensitivity troponin values (86 pg/ml) and mild leukocytosis.
Preoperative TTE showed a huge aneurysm of the midbasal segments of the inferior wall of left ventricle; moreover, from subcostal view, it was highlighted as a rupture of the interventricular septum [].
TEE confirms the evidence of the interventricular septal rupture, depicting the size of the defect and the shunt between left and right ventricle with 2.2 Qp/Qs ratio [].
Diagnosis of inferior and posterior STEMI with mechanical complication was established and then angiography was performed. it showed long critical occlusion in the proximal segment of the right coronary artery, critical stenosis of the circumflex artery, and moderate stenosis of the proximal left anterior descending. The examination was completed with the ventriculography. It confirms the huge left ventricular aneurysm of about 6.5 cm × 6 cm with a 3.5 cm neck, with contrast enhanced in the right ventricle and opacification of trabeculae carneae of the moderator band, indirect sign of the interventricular septal rupture [].
Patient's hemodynamic condition was stabilized with the introduction of intra-aortic balloon pump (IABP) associated to inotropic therapy. Despite best medical therapy, heart failure worsening and patient was referred for surgery. Intraoperative findings confirmed the interventricular septal rupture and huge inferior left ventricular aneurysm []. Mechanical complication of MI was repaired according to the