A 48-year-old woman presented to our intensive care unit (ICU) with a 10-day history of myalgias, fatigue, anorexia and progressive dyspnoea. Her initial evaluation in the emergency department was notable for confusion and jaundice. Initial vital signs were notable for hypotension, tachycardia and hypoxaemia with room air saturation of 82%. Laboratory evaluation revealed profound metabolic derangements (see ) including elevated liver enzymes, acute kidney injury and a marked lactic acidosis (14 mmol/L) with a calculated anion gap of 43 mmol/L. Over the course of a few hours, her condition further deteriorated with cardiovascular collapse that required multiorgan support with mechanical ventilation and vasopressor dependence despite fluid resuscitation. Acute kidney injury progressed to anuric renal failure requiring renal replacement therapy. Inpatient work-up in the ICU included CT scan of the chest, abdomen and pelvis which demonstrated bilateral pulmonary consolidations with areas of cavitation (see ), pancolitis to level of rectum and presence of free fluid in the abdomen.
The patient’s medical history was notable for a recently suspected but poorly defined autoimmune process. Two years prior to her current presentation, she had been evaluated by otolaryngology for palatal abnormalities. She was diagnosed with an infected palatal polyp that had progressed over several years with development of a defect in her hard and soft palate and recurrent sinusitis. As a result, she had difficulty with oral intake and chronic tooth pain. She reported depression as a result of her medical issues and had begun to use cocaine and alcohol as a consequence. A screening rheumatological evaluation done for evaluation of the palatal defect by her primary care provider revealed a positive antinuclear antibody and a positive antineutrophilic cytoplasmic antibody (ANCA) titre of 1:640 with a perinuclear pattern (see ). She was referred to rheumatology for further evaluation.
Over a similar time frame, she noted recurrent rashes over her lower extremities with associated pain, erythema and oedema. She had six separate episodes of rash, erythema and