A 67-year-old man was referred to our department with a diagnosis of IPDA aneurysm. The patient was asymptomatic and had a history of smoking and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). He underwent thoracentesis for pneumothorax, followed by pleurodesis four months before the referral for the IPDA aneurysm. The aneurysm was unexpectedly detected during examination for the pneumothorax.
A dynamic computed tomography (CT) scan showed a saccular IPDA aneurysm, with a diameter of 20 mm (). The aneurysm was located adjacent to the origin of IPDA from the superior mesenteric artery (SMA). Moderate calcification was observed on the aneurysm wall. CT also revealed chronic total occlusion at the origin of the celiac axis from the aorta. Due to the occlusion of the celiac axis, the IPDA and anterior inferior pancreaticoduodenal artery (AIPDA) had become well developed as major collateral sources from SMA to the common hepatic and splenic arteries (). The pancreaticoduodenal arcade arteries were very thick and entirely tortuous. We have predetermined local criteria to establish the therapeutic indications for visceral aneurysms. Treatment for visceral aneurysms, other than splenic artery aneurysms, is considered if the aneurysm size is >10 mm in diameter, regardless of the shape. The size of the aneurysm in this case met the criteria for treatment. Bilateral common iliac artery aneurysms were also occasionally detected; however, they were scheduled to be treated with stent grafting after treatment of the IPDA aneurysm.
For treating the IPDA aneurysm, coil embolization was initially considered. However, complete endovascular treatment seemed to be difficult because of the following issues: (1) The IPDA aneurysm was adjacent to the IPDA branching point from SMA, and the obturator placed for embolization of the IPDA aneurysm might drop off to the distal SMA, leading to acute intestinal ischemia. (2) Embolization of the IPDA aneurysm would block the dominant collateral blood flow to the celiac axis, which might cause severe acute global ischemia of the liver and spleen. To prevent severe ischemia in