A man, aged 67, was admitted to the Department of General and Vascular Surgery for an elective surgical procedure, due to clinical signs of abdominal aortic aneurysm, manifesting with periodical pain of changing intensity in the epigastric region (). The aneurysm had been diagnosed 3 months prior to the patient’s admission to the department. Before, the patient had suffered from episodes of stroke and undergone a bilateral trepanation of the skull, performed due to subacute subdural haematomas. His history also revealed long-lasting nicotine smoking and pharmacologically treated arterial hypertension. On admission, the patient was conscious and normally responsive. In a neurological examination, the patient was diagnosed with right hemiparesis, a consequence of previous strokes and neurosurgical procedures. In the epigastric region a mass, painless on palpation, resembling an aneurysm was revealed in a physical examination.
The patient was ordered an endovascular stent graft implantation procedure due to his clinical condition as well as due to the lower perioperative mortality and morbidity of this method in selected groups of patients in comparison to open surgery []. The approach to the abdominal aortic aneurysm was achieved by incising both the femoral arteries, through which a Zenith bifurcated stent graft was inserted. Systemic anticoagulation with 2500 IU of unfractionated heparin (UFH) was accomplished before catheter insertion and manipulation into the femoral arteries.
Branches of an endovascular prosthesis were placed in the common iliac arteries. The stent graft body was placed in the abdominal aorta, below the place where the renal arteries arise, which allowed the aneurysm to be excluded from the circulation. A follow-up intra-operative angiography confirmed the proper placement and expansion of elements of the prosthesis (). It also revealed proper contrasting of renal arteries, iliac external and internal arteries and no traces of leak.
On the first day following the stent graft implantation, the patient’s condition dramatically deteriorated. He reported severe headaches, nausea and vomiting. He was periodically unresponsive and the verbal contact was impaired. The blood pressure was 200/90 mm