A 55-year-old male, referred to our clinic with a complaint of a three-year history of progressive lumbar back pain, worsening in intensity since the past few months. The patient was responding poorly to multiple strong analgesic medications. Upon further questioning, the patient also revealed an unintentional weight loss of seven to ten kilograms over two years. The patient had no other comorbidities and was in a good state of health otherwise. On physical examination, there was an absence of tenderness over the spine. Rest of the physical examination was also overall unremarkable. Basic laboratory investigations including CBC, serum electrolytes, erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR), and renal function tests were ordered. The results are summarized in Table .
He had normochromic normocytic anemia and a raised ESR. Serum electrolytes and creatinine were within normal limits. X-ray of the spine was performed which revealed multiple bone lesions. The patient was counseled for the possibility of malignancy and referred to oncology for further workup. As the patient was a chronic smoker, chest computerized tomography (CT) was performed to screen for lung malignancy which showed no abnormalities. Furthermore, prostate-specific antigen, carcinoembryonic antigen, prostate examination, and abdominal imaging were performed to screen for prostate and colonic malignancy and were all unremarkable. Next up, multiple myeloma was suspected and further investigations including skeletal survey, serum calcium level, total protein/albumin ratio, serum and urine protein electrophoresis, and immunofixation studies were performed. Table summarizes the serum electrolytes and other necessary results. Calcium was unusually within the normal range.
We performed skeletal survey and immunofixation (Table ). Skeletal survey revealed multiple lytic lesions in the skull, ribs, humerus, scapulae, and vertebrae while immunofixation showed elevated free light chain protein levels as seen in Table .
We also did SPEP which is given below in figure . This case had a unique presentation of multiple myeloma as there was no evidence of monoclonal gammopathy (