The patient was a Chinese Han housewife of 52 years old, without contact with animals, with normal body mass index, and a place of residence without particularity. She was admitted on August 6, 2018 due to the main complaint of “slow movements and involuntary limb shaking for 3 months.” The patient had been suffering from slow movements for 3 months before admission, without obvious cause for physical retardation, and manifesting as slow walking speed and inflexibility, small split-steps, difficulty in turning around, and gradually worsening involuntary resting tremor. Those symptoms were accompanied by limb numbness and fatigue, dizziness, speech disfluency, small voice, loss of taste, and occasional urinary incontinence. On the other hand, there was no prodromal symptoms such as fever and headache, as well as no loss of consciousness and no limb convulsion. The patient had undergone routine cerebrospinal fluid examination in another hospital, and there was no obvious abnormality in cytology and biochemistry, and no pathogens. The patient was diagnosed with Parkinson's syndrome, and treated with benserazide and acupuncture. The symptoms did not improve and the patient was transferred to our hospital.
The patient had no previous history of exposure to toxic substances and drugs, no history of hypertension and diabetes, and no alcohol and tobacco consumption. The patient's father had a history of cancer. The physical examination at admission showed that the vital signs were normal, no cardiopulmonary abnormalities were observed, and no swelling of the superficial lymph nodes was observed. The patient was conscious and coherent, but with panic gait and few facial expressions. Limb muscle strength was normal, limb muscular tension was increased, and resting tremor of the limbs could be observed. Breast physical examination revealed no obvious mass. The modified Rankin score (mRS) was four. Blood routine, urine routine, fecal routine, liver and kidney functions, and electrolyte were all within the normal ranges. Serum anti-HIV antibody, antibodies against Treponema pall