A 29-year-old man of Asian origin was admitted with constant abdominal pain localising to the right upper quadrant with no radiation. There was no history of fever, haematuria, diarrhoea, vomiting or trauma. He had no significant past medical or family history. He had been a lifelong non-smoker, was not on any regular medications and had no known drug allergies. On examination, his vital observations and chest examination were normal. His abdomen was soft on palpation and right upper quadrant tenderness was elicited with no signs of peritonism.
Erect chest and abdominal radiographs were unremarkable. Serum biochemistry showed normal renal and liver function while full blood count showed leucocytosis (total white cell count 21.3 × 109/L) and normocytic anaemia (haemoglobin concentration 10.2 g/dL). Urine dipstick showed trace of protein only. Computed tomography (CT) scan (contrast enhanced) of the abdomen and pelvis showed a mixed attenuation lesion associated with a large perinephric haematoma ( and ). The patient was initiated on intravenous antibiotics.
After 48 h, the patient remained apyrexial and pain was well controlled while inflammatory markers improved. Four days following admission, the patient experienced severe acute onset right upper abdominal pain. Repeat blood tests showed a significant drop in the haemoglobin concentration to 6.3 g/dL. After resuscitation and blood transfusion, a repeat CT scan (contrast enhanced) showed a pseudoaneurysm in the inferior branch of the right renal artery (). The patient immediately underwent selective renal angiography confirming the presence of a bleeding 5.1 ×3.7 cm right renal artery pseudoaneurysm which was embolised successfully with two platinum coils ( to ).
The patient was monitored for further 48 h during which his pain improved, haemoglobin concentration remained stable and he was discharged from hospital. There was no evidence of undiagnosed hypertension as he remained normotensive prior to embolisation and during the 48 h period following the procedure. There was no history of familial hypercholesterolaemia and his