A 54-year-old man with 40 years history of smoking was presented with a left-sided weakness and slurring of speech. On admission, CT brain scan showed extensive right middle cerebral artery territory infarct. He was started on aspirin. Two days later, his Glasgow Coma Scale (GCS) dropped to 9 (E2V2M5) and repeat CT brain scan done showed haemorrhagic conversion with significant mass effect, midline shift, along with the development of a hydrocephalus. He underwent decompressive craniectomy with intracranial pressure monitoring.
Ultrasound carotid revealed small plaques in the distal aspect of the right common carotid artery.
Three weeks after stroke, he developed acute left lower limb ischaemia. Urgent CT aortography () showed severe and extensive atherosclerotic plaques (nearly 50% blockage) along with whole infrarenal aorta till its bifurcation, occlusion of the left popliteal artery from underlying thrombus, with partial occlusion of the left anterior and posterior tibial and peroneal arteries. A subsegmental pulmonary embolism in the right pulmonary artery was also detected during this scan.
He underwent left popliteal embolectomy through popliteal approach on the same day, without any intervention of aortic athroma.
After careful discussion with the patient, family, neurologist, rehab physician and vascular team, postoperatively he received full anticoagulation (heparin followed by warfarin). Initially, he was treated with intravenous heparin with titration of dose based on activated partial thromboplastin time and careful monitoring of neurological status. A repeat brain scan was performed to ensure no deterioration or recurrence of bleeding. Further, he underwent multidisciplinary inpatient rehabilitation with partial functional recovery. At the time of discharge, he was wheelchair independent.
The medications during this period included: aspirin, warfarin and high-dose simvastatin. The repeat CT angiogram of aorta and left lower limb for postoperative follow-up after 3 months (). As compared with the previous CT angiogram, the eccentric mural thrombus narrowing the aorta showed near complete resolution along with restoration of the calibre of aorta, the