A 69-year-old man was admitted to our hospital because of bilateral ataxia and dizziness. He had not been taking any medications and had been smoking 40 cigarettes per day for 49 years. Laboratory tests revealed mild dyslipidemia and impaired glucose tolerance. Blood pressure on admission was 188/92 mmHg. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) showed acute brain infarction at the bilateral cerebellar hemispheres and the right thalamus. The lesions in the cerebellum were not perfectly consistent with vessel-dominant regions supplied by the anterior inferior cerebellar artery or posterior inferior cerebellar artery. Head magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) showed bilateral VAs but posterior communicating arteries were not observed bilaterally. Neck MRA indicated right VA but did not show left VA []. Contrast-enhanced three-dimensional computed tomographic angiography (3D-CTA) showed right VA severe stenosis at the origin and did not show the left VA from the ostia to the lower edge of the second cervical vertebra [, left]. Relatively thick OA was also shown. Cerebral angiography revealed right VA severe stenosis similar to 3D-CTA, but showed near-occlusion of the ostia of the left VA and markedly delayed poststenotic blood flow in the left VA. Stenosis was detected only at the ostia, in contrast to 3D-CTA. Argatroban, antiplatelet medication (aspirin 100 mg and clopidogrel 75 mg daily), rosuvastatin, and omarigliptin were started. After the acute phase, amlodipine and olmesartan treatment were also begun. The patient was discharged home with mild bilateral ataxia.
We planned surgical reconstruction of posterior circulation in order to avoid fatal brain infarction due to posterior circulatory insufficiency, which is related to high morbidity and mortality. In terms of preoperative neurological symptoms, the muscle tones of extremities were intact. The gait on a flat surface was normal without assistance, but the tandem gait was unsteady when attempting to touch the heel of the right foot to the toe of the left foot. Mild dysmetria was seen when finger