A 76-year-old woman was initially admitted to the hospital on 9 November 2007 with a 2-week history of acute exacerbation of a chronic cough and dysphagia involving both solids and liquids. She had no haemoptysis, fever, chills, chest pain, or weight loss. Sixty years before presentation, the patient had worked as a stone crusher for 3 years, whereby she was exposed to a large amount of quartz dust without the use of any respiratory protective equipment. In 1969, she was diagnosed with silicosis and tuberculosis; the tuberculosis was treated and remained stable. She experienced no further exposure to dust or other toxic substances. On follow-up, she showed no change in her condition. The patient was a lifelong non-smoker and drank no alcohol. She was taking no medication.
On the current admission to the hospital, the patient appeared well on physical examination and had no palpable peripheral lymph nodes. Occasional wheezing was heard in both lungs. Laboratory data, including blood tests and measurement of serum electrolytes, liver enzymes, bilirubin, and renal function, were normal. A tuberculosis skin test revealed negative results. Three sputum specimens were negative for acid-fast bacilli by staining and culture. Chest radiography and computed tomography demonstrated eggshell calcifications of the hilar and mediastinal lymph nodes in the paratracheal, subcarinal, and aorticopulmonary window regions; bilateral multiple pulmonary nodules were visible. The lower left lobe showed a dense, ground-glass shadow. Barium oesophagography revealed two fistulas between the middle oesophagus and left main bronchus, immediately tracking into the left bronchial tree (). The patient was diagnosed with silicosis with oesophagobronchial fistulas and aspiration pneumonitis. She received antibiotics, and an oesophageal stent was placed on 14 December 2007. The patient’s symptoms improved.
However, her symptoms recurred within 3 days, and gastroesophageal endoscopy demonstrated a small ulcerated lesion above the metallic stents, with a small diverticulum 18 cm from the upper incisor and inflamed and friable oesophageal