A 57-year-old male patient reported to our department of oral medicine and radiology with a complaint of painful ulcer on the left side of the palate and unhealed socket for 2 months. History of the present illness revealed pain and discharge from the palate for 2 months. Pain was insidious in onset, dull, gnawing, intermittent in nature, lasts for hours, and relived on its own. Pain was associated with discharge. There was no history of paresthesia or anesthesia in the region of area of interest. Past medical history revealed that the patient was a known diabetic for 5 years and not on any medications. Past dental history revealed that the patient reported to a local dentist 2 months ago with tender swelling of gums and loosening of teeth. The condition was diagnosed as advanced periodontal disease with severe bone loss and periodontal abscess involving the left maxillary canine. The patient had undergone localized oral prophylaxis followed by extraction of the involved tooth under local anesthesia and oral prophylaxis was later completed. He was advised to maintain good oral hygiene and replacement of missing tooth once the socket heals. Personal history revealed that the patient was a smoker and smoked 2–3 bundles of bidi for 35 years. General examination revealed that he had poor built and nourishment with the presence of pallor and signs of anemia. The patient had submandibular lymphadenopathy without any evidence of tenderness or swelling extraorally. Intraoral examination revealed missing left maxillary canine, generalized signs of severe periodontitis, and exposed necrotic maxillary bone in the palatal area with a necrotizing ulcer. The ulcer extends mediolaterally from the crest of alveolar bone at canine region toward the midline of hard palate and anteroposteriorly from palatal gingival region of the left maxillary central incisor to the left maxillary second molar. The ulcer was covered by brownish yellow slough, deprived of soft tissues. The ulcer measured around 3 cm × 5 cm in size and had denuded bone in its floor with irregular margins and sloping edges