A 70-year-old man was referred to Korea University Anam Hospital with a large painless mass in the right neck. The mass was firstly discovered when the patient visited a local hospital with symptoms of exercise-induced dyspnea. He was taking medication for hypertension and had no history of thyroid disease, or family history of thyroid disease. Informed consent was gotten from the patient and the Institutional Review Board approval was waived.
The chest radiography showed tracheal deviation to the left side with mild narrowing of the midtrachea due to the mass in the right lower neck and anterior mediastinum (). The CT scan revealed an approximately 8.8 × 9.1-cm-sized heterogeneous enhanced circumscribed mass in the right lower lobe of the thyroid gland with exophytic growth into the mediastinum (). Tracheal deviation and compression by the mass were also noticed. There was no definite evidence of local invasion to the adjacent structures, including the trachea, large vessels, and mediastinal soft tissue. However, there were two solid nodules in the right and left lower lobes of the lungs, each measuring approximately 1.0 and 1.3 cm, respectively, in size. The lung nodules were considered to be possible metastatic lesions. The mass showed heterogeneous echogenicity with some increased intratumoral vascularity on the ultrasound (). An ultrasound-guided biopsy revealed that the mass was a spindle cell tumor. Thyroid function tests were normal.
The patient underwent a right lobectomy of the thyroid and mass excision. On the section of the gross specimen, the cut surface showed a well-circumscribed whitish gray solid mass, measuring 9.0 × 8.6 cm. Histological examination showed a totally encapsulated neoplasm traversed by an irregular thin or thick band-like fibrotic tissue. The tumor had a biphasic pattern which was composed of predominantly solid dense groups of spindle cells and small quantities of intermixed epithelial components. The uniform plump spindle cells were arranged in tight streaming short fascicular patterns with occasional microcystic changes (