A 60-year-old male patient reported with a chief complaint of painful swelling over the left side of the neck region since 2 months. The pain was dull and intermittent. The swelling was gradual n slow. There was no significant past medical, dental, and family history. He had a history of beedi smoking (smokeless tobacco) for 30 years, with a frequency of 10–12/day. He also had a history of gutkha chewing for the same period with a frequency of 3–5 packets/day.
Extraoral clinical examination revealed palpable and tender swelling extending from behind the ear lobe to the angle of the mouth on the left neck region [].
The intraoral examination showed an ulceroproliferative lesion involving the left posterolateral part of the tongue extending onto the soft palate involving faucial pillars was seen. The ulcer was tender on palpation, exhibiting irregular margins with ill-defined borders surrounded by erythematous area. Oral hygiene was poor with generalized stains and calculus. Generalized attrition was present. No limitation of mouth opening was seen. Tongue movements were within normal limits. Left submandibular lymph nodes were palpable, hard, tender, and were fixed to the underlying structures [].
Based on the clinical features, a provisional clinical diagnosis of carcinoma of the base of the tongue was given. After obtaining written consent from the patient, an incisional biopsy from the lateral border of tongue was performed under local anesthesia and sent for histopathologic examination. The patient was advised to get a magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) done.
MRI showed the lesion extended into the posterior wall of the pharynx and to the base of the skull along with evidence of nodal metastasis and since invasive carcinoma could not be ruled out from the incisional specimen, treatment was planned accordingly [].
All the accessible areas of the oral cavity were excised and debulking surgery over the pharyngeal mass was done. Radical neck dissection was done to removed the neck mass. Surgery was done under general anesthesia