A 67-year-old woman was diagnosed with a high-grade undifferentiated pleomorphic sarcoma following the resection of a rapidly growing soft-tissue mass. Her symptoms began 11 months prior to diagnosis when she initially fell on her hip and felt a bump with associated pain. In the emergency room, the initial history and physical examination resulted in the diagnosis of a hematoma around her proximal femur. Her symptoms worsened over the next nine months and she experienced recurrent falls. Radiographic imaging six weeks prior to her initial cancer diagnosis did not reveal significant abnormalities. Due to the concern for a possible hip fracture, a CT scan without intravenous contrast was obtained. While the CT confirmed no displaced fracture, it indicated clinical correlation for a nonspecific left thigh tissue collection suggestive of a hematoma. An MRI was obtained after the CT and demonstrated a soft-tissue mass in the subcutaneous tissue of the left hip suspicious for sarcoma. The patient had a consultation with an orthopedic oncologic specialist one week following the MRI and underwent a radical resection of the sarcoma the next day.
The pathology report revealed a 13.5 cm superficial left hip undifferentiated high-grade pleomorphic sarcoma with 50-60% necrosis. Margins were negative, with the closest evidence of cancer being 2 mm within surgical margins. A staging chest CT one week after surgery demonstrated two tiny lung nodules with the larger nodule measuring 4 mm which indicated a recommended follow up of three to six months. Of note, there was also a small hypodense lesion in the spleen that was inadequately visualized. Tumor stage was established to be Stage III measuring 13.5 cm at its greatest dimension. The tumor, node, metastasis (TNM) staging was established to be pT2a, cN0, cM0 without evidence of lymph node involvement or distant metastases. The patient had two follow-up appointments with the surgeon who recommended a consult to medical and radiation oncology on both occassions. She had consultations at two other institutions including a sarcoma clinic, with a recommendation of adjuvant chemotherapy and