A 64-yr-old man was admitted to the hospital because of an abnormal shadow, about 1-cm sized solitary pulmonary nodule (SPN), on chest radiography. He was diagnosed as chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (Global Initiative for Chronic Obstructive Lung Disease criteria class II) in 1998 and had taken medical treatment for the disorder. He was a 30 pack-year smoker.
Chest radiographs showed a round, smooth-margined SPN in the left upper lobe (). Chest CT showed an SPN measuring 12×11×11 mm in the anterior segment of left upper lobe (). Dynamic contrast-enhanced CT scans also revealed that the SPN was well enhanced above 60 Hounsfield Unit (HU) in early phase and showed an early washout pattern ().
The patient underwent a left thoracotomy and a wedge resection was performed for the pulmonary tumor with diagnostic and curative purpose. The tumor was well-circumscribed, grayish-white on cut surface and measured 12×10 mm in diameter (). There was no necrosis or hemorrhage. The tumor was not encapsulated but it was relatively easy to separate from the surrounding pulmonary parenchyma.
Histologically, the tumor consisted of sheet of neoplastic cells surrounded by thin-walled blood vessels with various sizes. Relatively numerous clefts resembling bronchiole or metaplastic alveoli were recognized (). The vasculature was prominent and often tumor cells were arranged in a radial fashion around blood vessels. However, there was no vessel with a thick muscular wall. The tumor cells were polygonal with abundant clear to eosinophilic granular cytoplasm and distinct cytoplasmic membranes (). Few mitotic figures were recognized in 50 high power fields (HPF). The clear cytoplasm contained numerous glycogen granules as demonstrated by PAS staining. The immunohistochemical studies showed strong immunoreactivity for HMB-45 in most tumor cells () and some cells showed a positive reaction to S-100 protein, but no reactivity for cytokeratin. The diagnosis of the benign clear cell sugar tumor of the lung was established.