A 27-year-old previously normotensive woman presented to the medical emergency department with sudden onset persistent headache. She neither had similar symptoms in the past nor was she a drug abuser. She was unmarried and had no other illness. On examination, she was conscious and oriented. She was not anaemic or jaundiced. She had no significant past medical history or abdominal surgery and her family history was insignificant. Her blood pressure was 200/160 mm of mercury at presentation and examination of her fundus revealed grade one hypertensive retinopathy. Abdominal examination revealed a mobile mass involving the right lumbar and right hypochondriac regions reaching the midline. The firm mass was moving with respiration, nontender and bimanually palpable. There was no other palpable abdominal mass. Examination of the chest and spine was normal. Her blood investigations including renal function test, blood counts, liver function tests, serum calcium, sodium, potassium, and erythrocyte sedimentation rate were within normal limits. Plasma free metanephrine levels also were normal. Urine examination revealed microalbuminuria and the presence of eight red blood cells per high power field. Ultrasonographic examination of the abdomen was done which revealed a 15x10x7 cm sized solid renal mass with internal vascularity occupying the upper pole and interpolar regions. Echocardiography showed normal cardiac chambers. Computed tomography (CT) of the brain was normal. The metastatic workup was completed with contrast-enhanced computed tomography (CECT) of the abdomen and a chest roentgenogram. CECT of the abdomen revealed an enhancing tumour 15x10x7 cm in size arising medially from the right kidney and displacing it laterally and inferiorly (Figure ). The tumour was closely related to the inferior vena cava (IVC) and compressing the renal vessels (Figure ). The inferior vena cava was devoid of any thrombus. There was no evidence of paraaortic lymphadenopathy, ascites or liver metastases. The adrenal glands were normal and chest roentgenogram did not show any evidence of metastases