A 50-year-old Tunisian man, diagnosed with BD since the age of 29 years, was hospitalized for angina pectoris with a 2 weeks history of anterior chest pain (Canadian Cardiovascular Society class III). The BD diagnoses were based on oral aphta and genital ulcers with a positive pathergy test and repeated episodes of posterior segment inflammation treated by corticosteroids but complicated by complete blindness. The only cardiac risk factor was smoking. Physical examination upon admission revealed a fever of 37.5°C, pulse rate at 90 beats/ min and blood pressure at 120/70 mmHg. Heart sounds and bilateral lung area were normal. The patient erythrocyte sedimentation rate was at 30 mm/hr, C reactive protein level at 6 mg/dl. The protein C, S, homocyteinemia, creatine kinase, serum glutamic-oxaloacetic transaminase, liver and kidney function tests, serum cholesterol and triglycerides were all within the normal limits. Anticardiolipin antibodies and antinuclear factor were negative. An electrocardiogram revealed only sinus tachycardia. Transthoracic echocardiogram revealed no abnormality. On the base of these data, the patient was diagnosed with instable angina. Treatment was initiated with Colchicine, intravenous nitroglycerin, heparine and beta-blocker therapies which lead to a resolution of the symptoms. Six days after hospital admission, the patient underwent coronary angiography, showing one aneurysm (16/8 mm) located on the distal right coronary artery with a tight stenosis located on the proximal part of the posterolateral branch (Fig. ). Heparine therapy was stopped and the following course of treatment implemented: monthly pulse of intravenous cyclophosphamide, methylprednisolone 1g/day for 3 days followed by oral administration of prednisone at a dose of 80 mg/day leading to improvement of all the symptoms. The dose of prednisolone was gradually decreased. Three years later, the patient was referred to cardiac unit with chest pain; coronary angiography showed a total occlusion of the right coronary with athe rosclerotic lesions and well developed collateral circulation. The electrocardiogram showed no signs of