The patient was a 66-year-old man without a smoking history. The patient had been previously healthy until he was diagnosed with GERD a month prior, and began treatment with lansoprazole. He had a history of working at a dusty place several weeks before hospitalization, where he did not experience any respiratory symptoms. However, a few days after initiation of lansoprazole treatment, cough and dyspnea developed along with a febrile sense. After suffering from a progressively aggravating cough and dyspnea for a month, the patient visited our hospital.
Vital signs of the patient were stable and the laboratory studies including eosinophil count were all in the normal ranges. An initial chest radiograph showed diffuse ground-glass opacities in both lungs with upper lobe predominance, and we diagnosed differentiated diffuse interstitial lung disease or interstitial pneumonia, such as Pneumocystis carinii pneumoniae pneumonia (). High-resolution computed tomographic scans (HRCT) showed focal areas of diffuse ground-glass opacity in both lungs with upper lung predominance, similar to those of the plain radiographs (). The patient was hospitalized for further evaluation and treatment. A transbronchial lung biopsy was performed, and the histopathological result was acute lung injury with marked type II pneumocyte hyperplasia, interstitial edema and interstitial infiltration of lymphocytes. After only one day of symptomatic treatment, both the clinical symptoms and chest radiographic findings rapidly improved. Considering his recent history of working at a dusty place, we thought that the clinical, radiologic, and histopathological findings represented hypersensitivity pneumonitis and we decided to start prednisolone therapy (30 mg/day). However, on the third day of prednisolone therapy, the patient complained of sudden aggravation of dyspnea. Blood gas analysis showed hypoxemia (SaO2 80% on room air), and the chest radiographic findings showed aggravation of diffuse bilateral infiltration. We performed a video-assisted thoracoscopic lung biopsy to decide on further treatment planning. The specimen showed a NSIP pattern with frequent Masson's bodies, active type II pneumocyte hyperplasia and mixed interstitial inflammation without