A 45-year-old Hispanic female presented to our community hospital with sudden onset of expressive aphasia, dysarthria and right upper extremity weakness. This patient was last known well one hour prior to arrival. Head computed tomography (CT) demonstrated a subacute hypodensity in the left cerebellum. Perfusion CT imaging demonstrated a deficit on mean transit time concerning for watershed type stroke versus a distal left middle cerebral artery occlusion.
The patient has a past medical history of hyperlipidemia and chronic anemia status post gastric bypass surgery several years prior to presentation. She denied alcohol, tobacco, or illicit drug use. She denied family history of stroke, heart conditions, or coagulopathies. Her home medications included atorvastatin 40 mg PO daily and cyanocobalamin 1000 mcg PO daily.
On the first day of admission, the patient underwent emergent neurointervention with cerebral angiogram and mechanical thrombectomy of the left middle cerebral artery secondary to significant findings on CT cerebral perfusion imaging. Following intervention, the patient was globally aphasic with gross right upper and lower extremity weakness but able to follow simple commands. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the brain demonstrated multiple large and small infarcts of the left parietal lobe and left basal ganglia, with an older infarct of the left cerebellum (Figure ). Given the distribution of multiple areas of infarction on MRI, it was suspected that the source of ischemic stroke was thromboembolic in nature.
Transesophageal echocardiogram demonstrated a positive agitated saline test confirming the presence of a patent foramen ovale. CT angiogram of the chest demonstrated minimal minute filling defects of the right inferior pulmonary arteries consistent with small pulmonary emboli. Doppler ultrasound studies of bilateral upper and lower extremities were negative for thrombus. Hypercoagulable workup including testing for antiphospholipid antibodies, factor V Leiden, protein C, protein S, antithrombin III activity, prothrombin gene mutation, and homocysteine levels were unremarkable. Further investigation into thrombogenic source was warranted and magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) and magnetic resonance venography (