A 45-year-old white female initially presented to the emergency department (ED) with a chief complaint of a traumatic severe left lower back pain for three days. The pain was sharp and radiated down her left anterior thigh. The pain worsened with movement and improved with rest, but persisted when lying still. Associated symptoms included dysuria and mild generalized abdominal pain. Past medical and surgical history was significant for genital herpes, iron deficient anemia, and hemorrhoidectomy. She took no prescription medicine. Social history was positive for tobacco use, but she denied alcohol or recreational drug use. Her job was labor intensive and involved heavy lifting. She first noticed the pain with associated stiffness upon waking the morning after a work shift. She denied trauma, fevers, rigors, weight loss, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, constipation, vaginal bleeding or discharge, weakness or numbness in the lower extremities, and urinary incontinence. On physical examination she was afebrile with normal vital signs. She was in obvious discomfort and unable to sit up straight due to pain. Her gait was antalgic. She had tenderness to palpation and increased tone over her left lumbar paraspinal musculature. Her strength, reflexes and sensation of the lower extremities were normal. The remainder of the physical exam was unremarkable. She was diagnosed with lumbosacral strain and discharged home with a prescription of opiate analgesics.
The patient returned to the ED via ambulance four days later, tearful and writhing in pain. Her vital signs were normal. The physical examination was essentially unchanged from her previous encounter. Specifically, there was no midline spinal tenderness or neurologic deficits in the lower extremities. Straight leg testing was negative with reproduction of the back pain but without radiation. Plain spinal radiographs showed degenerative changes but no acute process. She was treated with intravenous (IV) opiates and antiemetics and was discharged to home when she stated her pain had diminished.
Four days later, or eight days after her initial