A 42-yr-old male was referred to Ulsan University Hospital for evaluation of a multinodular mass based on the left diaphragmatic pleura. This mass had been detected incidentally on a chest radiograph during the patient's annual medical checkup. The patient had been in good general condition, except for left inferior pleural thickening on chest radiographs taken from 1999 to 2004. A newly developed small nodule was detected in 2005, but the clinician regarded it as an inactive lesion. In 2007, the lesion had enlarged and formed a sizable mass, suggesting a malignancy (). The patient had smoked one-half to one pack of cigarettes per day for 14 yr. On admission, all laboratory data were within normal ranges. Computed tomography (CT) revealed a homogeneously well-enhanced multinodular mass, measuring 4.8 cm in its greatest dimension, based on the diaphragm (). The patient was suspected of having a tumor of pleural origin such as a sclerosing hemangioma. There was no evidence of a lung parenchymal mass or a primary malignancy of other organs. An excision by VATS was attempted.
Intraoperatively, the mass had the gross appearance of a hemangioma containing blood. The mass, which was tightly attached to the diaphragm and adjacent lung tissue, was removed through a minimal thoracotomy. A piece of soft tissue labeled "diaphragm" was submitted for a frozen section, which revealed a multinodular solid mass containing abundant lymphoid cells in a diffuse or vaguely nodular arrangement, as well as a thick fibrous capsule and septae, suggesting it may be a low grade malignant lymphoma (). The entire mass and the attached lung tissue were excised. Examination of a permanent section showed that the mass was ectopic splenic tissue, which included white and red pulp and central arteries ().
A review of the patient's medical history showed that, 20 yr earlier, he had been pierced through the left abdomen and back by an iron bar. The patient, however, did not know what kind of operation had been performed. Review