A 62 year-old man was admitted to Severance hospital, Seoul, Korea with a chief complaint of left shoulder pain for 2 months and melena for 1 week. He had been treated for diabetes mellitus for 3 years and had a smoking history of 30 pack-years. His medical history included esophagectomy with esophagogastrostomy due to an esophageal rupture caused by a lodged chicken bone 8 years prior. This gastric transposition was performed by the substernal route. The patient also underwent several esophageal dilations because he suffered an esophageal stricture due to lye ingestion more than 11 years ago. Upon admission, laboratory studies revealed that he had mild leukocytosis (13,800/uL) and severe anemia (Hb 5.5 g/dL). Chest radiographs showed mild pulmonary edema without evidence of pneumopericardium. On endoscopic examination, there was a huge, deeply penetrating gastric ulcer on the anterior wall of the upper body (). A gastrograffin chest CT scan was then performed, showing a focal lesion bulging out of the posterior gastric wall and protruding into the pericardial space with severe thickening of the adjacent pericardium. However, there were no signs of gastrograffin leakage. The fistula between the posterior wall of the transposed stomach and pericardium was probably sealed off, resulting in an adhesion (). Pathology revealed the presence of Helicobacter gastritis in the gastric ulcer. He was conservatively treated, including proton pump inhibitor and H. pylori eradication. A follow-up endoscopy was performed approximately 2 weeks later, showing great improvement (). However, 2 months later, the patient came to the emergency department with severe epigastric pain and left shoulder pain. The endoscopy showed a deep, active gastric ulcer at the same location as the previous ulcer. Therefore, it was decided to operate for the medically intractable ulcer. This operation required caution due to his previous surgical history. There was a possibility that a colonic interposition might be needed as a substitute for the esophagus and stomach. However,