A 73-yr-old male presented to us with a pulsating abdominal mass. Abdominal computerized tomography (CT) scan showed an abdominal aortic aneurysm having crossed ectopia with fusion anomaly of the kidneys. His past medical history was positive for smoking, hypertension, benign prostatic hypertrophy, and parkinsonism. On physical examination, a pulsating non-tender abdominal mass of about 8 cm in diameter was palpable around the umbilicus. Lower extremity pulses were palpable without evidence of aneurysmal dilatation. Laboratory tests, chest radiography, and electrocardiography were normal. The patient underwent a transfemoral aortogram () to evaluate the renal arterial anatomy. One renal artery from the abdominal aorta for the upper (right) kidney, and two renal arteries from the aneurysm and one renal artery from the left common iliac artery for the lower kidney (crossover left) were seen. One pelvis and one ureter for each kidney were also identified. Operation was conducted. The retroperitoneal cavity was approached transperitoneally. The ureter of the lower (crossover left) kidney crossed the midline at the level of the bifurcation and entered the bladder. To minimize renal ischemic injury, we dissected the lower two renal arteries (one from the aneurysm itself and the other from the left common iliac artery) and anastomosed the lowest renal artery (from the left common iliac artery) to middle renal artery (from the aneurysm itself) in a side-to-end fashion before aneurysm resection. We administered mannitol before the aortic cross clamping. After clamping the abdominal aorta below the level of the right renal artery and bilateral internal and external iliac arteries, the aneurysm was opened and two renal artery orifices were discovered. After the proximal anastomosis of the bifurcated graft, two renal arteries were individually reimplanted and blood flow was resumed to renal arteries. The renal arteries were reperfused within 20 min after the aortic cross clamping. Anastomosis of the two iliac limbs of the bifurcated graft to common iliac arteries was performed without concern of the time. The patient