A 50-year-old male presented to the emergency department (ED) with a chief complaint of weakness to the upper and lower extremities, increasing over the four days prior to arrival and described as an overall “heavy” feeling. The patient described a constant, yet gradually increasing weakness over this timeframe. He had no previous similar symptoms. The patient denied numbness, paresthesias, headache, fever, neck stiffness, visual changes, shortness of breath, or pain of any kind. The patient stated he had one week of watery diarrhea that had resolved two weeks prior to the onset of his weakness. The review of systems was negative with the exception of the weakness. Past medical history was positive for hypertension only. There was no pertinent family history. Social history was notable for alcohol intake of two to three beers per day. The patient had never smoked or used illicit drugs. He was married and lived at home with his wife.
The physical exam was normal with the exception of mildly decreased proximal muscle weakness bilaterally (4/5), in both upper and lower extremities. The patient had no difficulty ambulating; however, he did have mild difficulty raising himself from a sitting position. The cranial nerves and cerebellar exam were normal. Reflexes were normal in both upper and lower extremities on repeated exams. A head CT and all labs—including complete blood count, electrolytes, liver function, thyroid-stimulating hormone, and erythrocyte sedimentation rate—were within normal limits. The differential diagnosis included Guillain Barré Syndrome (GBS), but this diagnosis was thought to be less likely based on the normal reflexes and isolated proximal muscle weakness. A neurology consultation was requested. After performing their own history and physical exam they recommended outpatient clinic evaluation for electromyography (EMG). While the etiology of the muscle weakness was unclear, they felt GBS was unlikely.
The patient returned to the ED two days later with a progression of symptoms and was seen