A 55 year-old man with no previous history of cardiac disease and well controlled hypertension visited the outpatient cardiology department. The patient had experienced discomfort in his chest with unexplained dyspnea for 4 days. He complained of severe night sweats as well, but could not recall the exact time when symptoms started. He had smoked a pack a day for the past 30 years. Findings from physical examination were not specific; no palpable lymph nodes, palpable liver, or spleen were observed. Initial lab results showed no remarkable findings, with the exception of mild pro Brain Natriuretic Peptide (BNP) elevation to 568.4 pg/mL. The patient's initial electrocardiogram (ECG) revealed first degree AV block (). Chest radiography was close to normal. A well delineated lesion adjacent to the ascending aorta was observed in transthoracic echocardiography (TTE). Consequently, thoracic aorta CT was performed; a multi-lobulating, low density mass (about 7 cm) with an irregular shape was observed in the right atrium (RA) and extended to the periaortic space of the ascending aorta and left atrium (). The lesion adjacent to the ascending aorta in TTE was revealed as a cardiac mass by CT scan. The patient was referred to the hemato-oncology department, and scheduled to undergo biopsy of the cardiac mass within a few days at the department of chest surgery.
However, before the scheduled appointment for biopsy, the patient was rushed to the emergency room for worsening chest discomfort, dyspnea, and palpitation. Mobitz type I in second degree AV block was detected on ECG while the patient was complaining of symptoms (). The patient underwent 24 hour holter monitoring. Although there was no direct clinical correlation with AV block, 2:1 AV block was found in the readings (). Mediastinotomy via right parasternal incision was performed, followed by tumor biopsy. Surgical findings showed that the mass was not engaging with the pericardium and that it surrounded the RA and aorta, as in the