A 64-year-old female was referred to our surgical oncology clinic for evaluation of cystic lesions of the pancreas found on CT scan at an outside hospital after she presented with a history of approximately nine months of vague epigastric pain, nausea and vomiting. She had a 50-year history of daily tobacco use (0.5 pack per day) and nightly alcohol use that had reportedly stopped around the same time as the onset of her symptoms, but she was otherwise healthy.
She had also undergone an MRI/MRCP at the outside hospital that revealed multiple cystic loculations of the pancreas that appeared to be possibly in communication with the main pancreatic duct (). There were calcifications in the head of the pancreas consistent with chronic pancreatitis. Her Carbohydrate Antigen 19-9 (CA 19-9) was <1. A three-phase pancreas protocol CT scan was performed at our institution that showed dilation of the main pancreatic duct with innumerable saccular cystic dilations, thought to be likely dilated side branches arising from the pancreatic duct (). The working diagnosis was the presence of pancreatic pseudocysts in relation to chronic pancreatitis. Her local gastroenterologist proposed endoscopic transgastric cystic drainage of her dominant cyst. After evaluation at our institution, the differential diagnosis included pseudocysts secondary to chronic pancreatitis as well as diffuse, multiple intraductal papillary mucinous neoplasms (IPMN).
The patient underwent an endoscopic ultrasound with fine needle aspiration and cyst fluid analysis, demonstrating a Carcinoembryonic Antigen (CEA) level of over 600 ng/mL, an amylase level of over 75,000 U/L, and rare clusters of mucinous epithelium, consistent with a mucinous tumor communicating with the pancreatic ductal system. Her case was discussed at our institution’s Pancreaticobiliary Disease Center Tumor Board and total pancreatectomy was recommended given the extent of these mucinous tumors and high suspicion for multifocal branched duct IPMN.
The patient underwent a total pancreatectomy with duodenectomy, cholecystectomy, and splenectomy, and creation of a