A 44-year-old woman presented with a 3 day history of acute visual loss in the left eye. She did not complain of ocular pain, but she did report a headache localized to the left side beginning one week prior. Two years prior she had suffered from multicentric CD confirmed by histopathologic examination of a cervical lymph node. Rituximab was administered and chemotherapy was performed with cyclophosphamide, vincristine, doxorubicin, and prednisone. She did not have any other medical history including diabetes mellitus, hypertension, tuberculosis, or hyperlipidemia. She had never smoked and rarely drank alcohol. She had been suffering from myalgia and neuropathy at the onset of the optic neuropathy.
Ophthalmologic examination revealed a best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA) of 20/20 in the right eye and 20/100 in the left eye. A relative afferent pupillary defect was detected in the left eye. Color testing revealed total dyschromatopsia in the left eye. A cecocentral scotoma and inferonasal visual field defect was identified in the left eye (). Mild disc edema was observed and fluorescein angiography showed mild disc edema without leakage; disc filling time was not delayed (). Pattern visual evoked potentials showed a decreased amplitude and delayed latency in the left eye. The mutation for Leber's hereditary optic neuropathy was not detected. Brain magnetic resonance imaging revealed a small cystic lesion in the right prepontine and suprasellar cistern, which was suspicious for epidermoid (). The cystic lesion was not associated with the visual pathway, including the optic nerve.
The patient refused to undergo steroid pulse therapy because she had experienced increased blood glucose levels and generalized edema during previous steroid pulse therapy for CD. Two weeks later her BCVA had decreased to hand motion and her visual field demonstrated a superotemporal field defect with a cecocentral scotoma. One month later her BCVA had improved to 20/100 and her color vision had improved to 2 out of 14 plates in the Ishi