A 3-year-old boy presented with a history of cyanosis since 8 months of age, effort intolerance since infancy, and breathlessness on exertion with saturation of 64% on room air. Echocardiographically, he was diagnosed with d-transposition of great arteries, intact interventricular septum, moderate sized secundum atrial septal defect, moderate subvalvar pulmonary stenosis, Grade II tricuspid regurgitation, and normal right ventricular (RV) function with a semi prepared LV. A chest X-ray showed increased vascularity in the lung fields and a prominent right pulmonary artery. Echocardiographically, the left ventricle looked semi-prepared with a posterior wall thickness of 4 mm although cardiac catheterization revealed LV pressure of 69/12 mmHg and RV pressure of 100/14 mmHg.
The patient underwent an arterial switch operation with relief of LV outflow tract obstruction. He was stable for 24 hours after surgery. However, subsequently he became hemodynamicaly unstable with a chest X-ray suggestive of acute pulmonary edema. Left atrial (LA) pressures were high in spite of diuretics and adequate afterload reduction. An echo showed no residual LV outflow tract obstruction, tricuspid regurgitation gradient of 20 mmHg, mild mitral regurgitation with a LV ejection fraction of 50%. The patient required prolonged ventilation with diuretics and inotropic support and then showed gradual improvement with chest X-rays showing clear lung fields. The patient was finally extubated on the 12th day after the operation and he was discharged from the intensive care unit (ICU) on the 15th postoperative day
However, he was readmitted to the ICU four more times because of respiratory distress requiring mechanical ventilation. A series of chest X-rays taken during this period were suggestive of recurrent episodes of pulmonary edema. An echo done during these re-admissions showed fair LV without any LV outflow tract obstruction.
The hypothesis was that although the LV was partially prepared prior to the arterial switch operation, it did not tolerate having to pump at systemic pressures. In view of repeated intubations