A 78-yr-old woman presented with gross hematuria for 2 weeks on November 23, 2009. There was no history of urologic problems. The patient was a non-smoker and had not been exposed to carcinogen. Physical examination and vital sign were normal
At the time when the patient was admitted to this hospital, numerous RBC were observed on urinalysis. There were no notable findings on blood test and chest radiography. On cystoscopy, a frond-like mass was observed at the bladder trigone, which measured about 1 cm (). Since hematuria continued, Foley catheterization was performed.
On computerized tomography (CT) of the abdomen and pelvis, the findings of enhancement and a small-sized mass were observed on the inner surface between posterior walls in the bladder trigone. The findings of perivesical infiltration and lymph node metastasis were not observed.
On the authority of above findings, the authors suspected the case to be carcinoma in situ of the urinary bladder or transitional cell carcinoma, and thus transurethral resection of bladder tumor (TURBT) was performed.
On histopathological examination, it was found that 90% of lesions were LELCA and a few lesions were non-invasive transitional cell carcinoma.
On microscopy, syncytial growth pattern and indistinct cytoplasmic borders were observed with the severe infiltration of lymphoid cells. The findings of necrosis and mitosis were observed in many regions. It was found that tumor cells invaded the whole lamina propria. Non-invasive transitional cell carcinoma was concomitant fractionally ().
On immunohistochemical staining, tumor cells were positive for cytokeratin 7 but were negative for cytokeratin 20 (). The infiltrated lymphocytes were composed of abundant CD3 positive T cells and CD20 positive B cells. For leukocyte common antigen (LCA), lymphoid cells were positive but tumor cells were negative (). In situ hybridization for Epstein-Barr virus was negative.
The patient has been without recurrence and metastasis for 3 months after the operation, and currently is on a follow-up.