A 21-year-old G1P1, female was admitted to the hospital with abdominal pain and syncope. She experienced sudden onset severe, sharp, localized pain in the left lower quadrant which gradually spread to become diffuse lower abdominal pain. She reported vaginal bleeding consistent with the time of her normal menses, though heavier than usual. Her past medical history was significant for left tubal ectopic pregnancy six months prior, medically managed with methotrexate. On admission, her hemoglobin was found to be 6.3 g/dL and she was transfused two units of packed red blood cells (pRBCs).
Nine days prior to her current admission, she presented to a local hospital with a similar episode. At that time, she was diagnosed with a ruptured ovarian cyst and managed conservatively. Six days prior to her current admission she was re-admitted to the local hospital after experiencing the same abdominal pain with a near syncopal episode. The outside facility performed a diagnostic laparoscopy which revealed intraperitoneal blood without active bleeding. She received transfusion of two units pRBCs at that time.
Her menstrual history was significant for menarche at age 15 followed by a history of heavy, long, irregular menses sometimes lasting up to two weeks. She reported a history of frequent urinary tract infections since childhood. She denied tobacco or alcohol use. She reported an allergy to penicillin, was not on any oral contraceptives, and reported no other medications or supplements. Further history did not reveal any bleeding dyscrasia. She had no family history of vascular anomalies such as aneurysms or vascular malformations.
Transvaginal pelvic ultrasound was suspicious for complex ascites versus hemoperitoneum and a complex cystic structure adjacent to the right ovary was thought to be a hemorrhagic ovarian cyst. A CT scan of the abdomen and pelvis revealed complex free fluid within the pelvis thought to be blood and a focus of high attenuation near the right ovary thought to be pooling of contrast or prominent vascularity (Figure ).
She was taken to the operating room for laparoscopy and