A 34 year old woman attended the perinatal medicine clinic of a tertiary maternity hospital in her second pregnancy at 8 weeks gestation owing to a history of recurrent VTE disease, where a dating ultrasound diagnosed a monochorionic twin pregnancy. She was a non-smoker, with no family history of VTE disease and a Body Mass Index of less than 35 kg/m2.
Her medical history was significant for multiple diagnoses of VTE disease over the preceding 10 years, despite negative thrombophilia testing. Bilateral pulmonary emboli (PE) were diagnosed following dental extraction (in conjunction with oral contraceptive pill use), followed 7 years later by a left above-knee deep vein thrombosis (DVT) and bilateral PE (in conjunction with a leg fracture and long-haul flight). A third episode of DVT and PE was identified at the time of a pregnancy loss. All episodes were treated with therapeutic anticoagulation. Subsequently, a temporary inferior vena cava (IVC) filter was inserted prior to an elective laparoscopic cholecystectomy, yet on removal of this, a thrombus was identified requiring further anticoagulation prior to removal.
One month following the IVC removal this lady had a positive pregnancy test and prophylactic LMWH was commenced followed by therapeutic LMWH on confirmation of a twin intrauterine pregnancy 2 weeks later. This dose was adjusted according to maternal weight and its efficacy was monitored by measuring trough and peak anti-factor Xa levels. At 16 weeks of gestation, anticoagulation was changed to twice daily enoxaparin due to low levels of anti-factor Xa, which indicated a rapid clearance of heparin.
As per guidance for monochorionic pregnancies [], at 16 weeks gestation, fortnightly ultrasound surveillance was commenced. At 18 weeks gestation, Quintero stage I TTTS was diagnosed; Twin 1 was identified as the recipient twin with polyhydramnios and a large bladder while the donor twin (Twin 2) had oligohydramnios and a small bladder. Umbilical artery Doppler measurements for both