A 55-year-old male with a past medical history of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, hypertension, hyperlipidemia, and nicotine dependence presented with worsening substernal chest pain with exertion. Initial work up showed a non-contributory electrocardiogram and troponin levels within normal limits. Patient already had a recent stress test myocardial perfusion imaging scan performed at outside hospital that was negative for ischemia or scar or high-risk features. The patient’s persistent atypical pain and risk factors for coronary artery disease (CAD) soon resulted in cardiac catheterization for possible acute coronary syndrome. Left heart catheterization via the right radial artery showed a large left main coronary artery that bifurcates into left circumflex artery with minimal disease and short LAD that gave a small diagonal artery which was occluded proximally (Fig. ). Upon engaging the right sinus of valsalva, an anomalous course was discovered. The right coronary artery was small and nondominant. The long LAD emerging from the right coronary artery gave collaterals to the previously mentioned long diagonal system on the left (Fig. ). Ventriculogram showed normal ejection fraction with normal intracardiac and transvalvular pressures.
His unique anatomy was observed in greater detail during a CT angiogram the following day which helped to further establish the course and to ensure the LAD did not course between aorta and pulmonary arteries. It was confirmed that the right coronary artery traveled in the anterior intraventricular groove to supply left ventricular myocardium, consistent with a type IV dual LAD per Spindola-Franco classification (Figs and ). Moreover, the normal MPI was reassuring that there was not compression involved; since that was the case, intravascular ultrasound was not performed in order to further assess this point. Cardiovascular surgery was not pursued since anomalous long LAD supply of anterior and septal regions was adequate without disease. The chronically occluded native long diagonal had adequate collateralization from the right long anomalous LAD at the apex. This was effectively single vessel disease with chronic total occlusion and negative low risk stress test on intermediate