A previously healthy 14-year-old woman of Jewish descent presented to hospital in April 2010 with sudden bilateral vision loss. She had an uneventful family history, no siblings and no evidence of consanguinity. She was a lifetime non-smoker and denied use of alcohol and drugs. Her past medical history included an unremarkable childhood with no developmental problems. She was known to have hypothyroidism and ovarian cysts.
Upon admission, she was found to be severely hypertensive and fundoscopy showed hypertensive retinopathy with retinal hemorrhages and bilateral retinal detachment. A cranial magnetic resonance imaging was done, which showed normal findings. Laboratory studies showed acute renal failure, thrombocytopenia and microangiopathic hemolytic anemia. Serum complement levels were normal. Although the ADAMTS13 (a disentegrin and metalloproteinase with a thrombospondin type 1 motif member 13) level was <5%, no antibodies were detected and genetic studies confirmed no mutation. Genetic testing for atypical HUS was also negative. She was screened for membranoproliferative glomerulonephritis, but there was no disease-causing mutation found in the C3, APLN or THBD gene. A renal biopsy showed severe thrombotic microangiopathy with 3 out of 24 glomeruli globally sclerosed with moderate interstitial fibrosis and tubular atrophy (Figure ).
Given these findings, she was treated for suspected thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura (TTP) with a course of steroids and 12 sessions of plasmapheresis. She initiated hemodialysis, which was discontinued after 6 months as she recovered some renal function. Four months later she was thought to have a relapse of TTP and again was treated with steroids and plasmapheresis for a few days. Of note, a repeat ADAMTS13 level done at that time was normal.
In 2013, she remained stable with Stage 4 chronic kidney disease (CKD). Her vision returned to normal with a normal eye examination that showed resolution of her retinal hemorrhages. An abdominal ultrasound showed increased echogenicity of the renal cortical tissue of the right and left kidneys, which measured 8.