A 16-year old young man was transitioned to the Royal Brompton ILD service from the paediatric respiratory department with a diagnosis of IPH. He had the first episode of haemoptysis aged 7 and since then experienced recurrent episodes of haemoptysis, shortness of breath and cough. He was given a diagnosis of IPH based initially on symptoms, recurrent shadowing on imaging (Fig. a) and negative autoimmune screen. Interestingly, aged 6 he was diagnosed with Hashimoto thyroiditis. Exacerbations of his IPH were strongly associated with flare ups of his thyroiditis. Until the age of 10, his symptoms and imaging findings responded to intermittent courses of oral corticosteroids of various doses.
Aged 11 he was admitted to the local hospital with haemoptysis and severe respiratory failure. He was intubated and transferred to the paediatric intensive care unit at RBH. He underwent BAL and surgical lung biopsy. The BAL revealed large numbers of haemosiderin-laden macrophages on Perl’s stain. The biopsy showed DAH without supporting evidence of vasculitis (Fig. ). His HRCT at the time of the biopsy demonstrated diffuse ground glass opacity, perivascular emphysema and a small cavity in the right lower lobe (Fig. b) which raised suspicion for vasculitis but repeat ANCA testing was negative. He was treated with antibiotics and intravenous corticosteroids with good response and resolution of the cavity on subsequent imaging. His spirometry prior to this acute episode showed FEV1 41% and FVC 37%.
Upon discharge, he was commenced on maintenance treatment with hydroxychloroquine, low dose prednisolone and azithromycin 250 mg three times weekly. Short term courses of increased doses of prednisolone were used for flare ups. A repeat HRCT 4 years after the biopsy showed extensive emphysema with a perivascular distribution, and superimposed diffuse ground glass opacities (Fig. c). The patient had never smoked nor had he ever been exposed to passive smoking.
When he transitioned to the adult IL