The patient is a 61-year-old man who was admitted to our hospital due to a mediastinal mass, interstitial lung disease, and hypertension. Two years ago, chest computed tomography (CT) scanning in the local hospital indicated diffuse interstitial changes in both lungs, pulmonary bullae in the 2 upper lungs, and a small nodule in the anterior mediastinum, which was considered a slightly enlarged lymph node. The patient was not re-examined at specific temporal intervals. More than 20 days ago, the patient coughed up white phlegm and presented with fever and pain in the chest. A chest CT at the local hospital showed that the right anterior mediastinal space was occupied, along with bronchitis and an enlarged heart with a thickened pericardium. The patient was then admitted to our hospital for further diagnosis and treatment. He had recently shown no significant reduction in weight. The patient had exhibited hypertension for more than 5 years, controlled with nifedipine. He had a history of alcoholic liver and rheumatoid arthritis for more than 5 years, for which he had previously taken medication (eg, methotrexate), which had been discontinued for several months. He also had a long history of dust exposure and drinking habits (100 mL every day, continuously for 40 years). The patient had no smoking habits. Upon the discovery of pulmonary auscultation, heavy lung respiratory murmurs were recorded.
At admission, the patient's blood indexes were basically normal, with the exception of slightly higher eosinophil levels (6%). He tested positive for perinuclear antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibody (p-ANCA), and his hypersensitive C-reactive protein level was slightly increased. Tumor markers were not elevated. At our institution, chest-unenchanced and contrast-enhanced CT was performed, which showed a right anterior mediastinal soft tissue mass with a size of approximately 5.2 × 3.3 cm,[ the boundary was still clear, and the internal density was homogeneous (about 35 HU). Contrast-enhanced CT scanning showed the mass with slightly heterogeneous