A 56-year-old non-smoking male was admitted with repeated cough and massive hemoptysis that had lasted a month. No other complaints or remarkable past medical history, including previous chest injury, were advised. The patient had been diagnosed a month earlier with pulmonary sequestration by chest computed tomography (CT) at another hospital, which indicated that the nutrient vessel was arising from the intercostal arteries. Transcatheter arterial embolization (TAE) had been performed three times at the previous hospital. After the right common femoral artery was accessed for digital angiography, some feeding arteries originating from the fifth and the sixth intercostal arteries were found, which supplied the abnormal lung tissue (Fig a–c). The aberrant arteries were then completely embolized with coils. After seven days, the second coil embolization was required because of continuous hemoptysis. Pre-embolization aortography demonstrated aberrant arterial blood supply from the seventh intercostal artery, and the aberrant artery was completely occluded with coils once again (Fig d,e). The third embolization was performed five days later to block the aberrant arteries as a result of the recurrent hemoptysis. Pre-embolization aortography showed aberrant arterial blood supply from the fourth intercostal artery (Fig f,g). Although TAE was performed three times with platinum micro coils and gel foam before the patient presented to our department, the patient continued to experience hemoptysis measuring approximately 50 mL per day, indicating unsuccessful occlusion of the intercostal arteries.
We performed a post-embolization enhanced chest CT scan, which revealed an irregular margin of a pulmonary mass on the left lower lobe with a feeding vessel originating from the intercostal arteries, particularly on the basal segments (Fig ). Some metal micro coils were also observed on the CT scan. The radiological findings indicated pulmonary sequestration. A general left lower lobectomy was performed by video-assisted thoracic surgery (VATS) because of the repeated cough and massive hemoptysis. A mass in the base of the left lung was resected during surgery, and aberrant arteries woven into vascular