A 29-year-old male university lecturer presented to the respiratory outpatient clinic with shortness of breath, cough, haemoptysis and recurrent chest infections. The clinical examination was unremarkable. The patient had a history of asthma, with unlimited exercise tolerance and no history of smoking or asbestos exposure. An incidental finding of a right hilar mass was detected on plain chest x-ray. Following the initial assessment, the patient underwent a CT and PET CT, which showed a well circumscribed intraparenchymal mass with an endobronchial component, which had low fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) uptake (Fig. ).
The patient subsequently underwent rigid and flexible bronchoscopies, showing an endobronchial tumour with satisfactory margins for a sleeve lobectomy. Biopsies from the endobronchial mass suggested a diagnosis of benign nerve sheath tumour. The patient underwent a video-assisted thoracoscopic surgery exploration, followed by open sleeve right upper lobectomy, with the tumour positively identified in the resected lobe.
Histology showed a spindle cell lesion comprised of cells arranged in a haphazard fashion with small amounts of eosinophilic cytoplasm and bland monomorphic nuclei. The tumour was strongly positive on immunohistochemistry for S100 protein and also showed positivity for CD56 and glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), with a subpopulation of CD34 positive cells. The morphological and immunohistochemical findings were unusual and reminiscent of so-called gastrointestinal schwannoma, but lacking the characteristic lymphoid aggregates and inflammatory component. The features were, nevertheless, best characterized as a benign schwannoma and the strongly positive immuno-staining for S100 protein supported this diagnosis (Fig. ).
Post-operatively the patient complained of fatigue and developed subcutaneous erythematous nodules on the anterior right chest, which raised the suspicion of neurofibromatosis type I. The nodules resolved spontaneously within 2 weeks, with no new changes on the follow-up chest CT scan. The diagnosis of neurofibromatosis type I was ruled out following genetic testing. No recurrence was identified at one year and the patient was discharged from follow-