A 24 year-old male with no significant past medical history and no history of smoking was transferred to our facility for evaluation of refractory colitis. Four weeks prior to transfer, the patient underwent a dental bone graft procedure and was administered antibiotics to include amoxicillin and clindamycin. Within 1 week the patient developed watery diarrhea up to 10–12 times daily. The patient was initially administered a 5-day course of metronidazole empirically, and initial Clostridium difficile PCR toxin assay while on metronidazole returned negative. The patient had no improvement in clinical symptoms on metronidazole.
Two weeks prior to transfer, the patient was evaluated by a gastroenterologist and second C. difficile PCR toxin assay returned positive. Treatment was initiated with vancomycin without clinical improvement. The patient was subsequently admitted to an outside facility 1 week prior to transfer with a CT scan of the abdomen demonstrating pancolitis (). The patient had no clinical improvement with oral vancomycin and intravenous metronidazole. He further described persistent abdominal pain, night sweats and a 11 kg weight loss.
On transfer to our facility, the patient had persistent bloody diarrhea. On physical examination the patient was afebrile and had diffuse abdominal discomfort. Initial laboratory studies revealed an elevated CRP, 41 mg/L, with a decreased albumin, 2.5 g/dL. Flexible sigmoidoscopy was performed demonstrating active colitis, without rectal sparing, and containing granular mucosa with a complete loss of vascular pattern (). Pathology revealed active colitis without changes of chronic colitis and without evidence for cytomegalovirus infection (). Stool culture on admission returned positive for Klebsiella oxytoca while repeat C. difficile PCR toxin assay following transfer was negative.
Given the presence of acute colitis and concern for antibiotic-associated hemorrhagic colitis secondary to K. oxytoca, antibiotics were withdrawn with clinical improvement in stool frequency. The patient was discharged with 1-week follow-up, at which time he continued to report symptoms of persistent colitis and weight loss. Repeat stool studies were performed to include a negative stool culture and positive C. difficile PCR