Patient is a 65-year-old male, a retired bank manager, who was first seen at the Haematology Day Care Unit in August 2016 having been referred from the Geriatric Center of the University College Hospital on account of a 5-month history of severe (score 7 of 10) and recurrent pain of the rib cage and low back. The pain was nonradiating and severe enough to disturb his normal daily activities. He had no associated constitutional symptoms. He presented to the source of referral at the onset of the illness where his hemoglobin electrophoresis was determined as HbS + C for the very first time ever. Analgesia was prescribed to him and this resulted in significant relief of the pain. Further questioning revealed that he had bone pain crisis in childhood but SCD was not diagnosed. However, the last episode of such was 35 years ago. He was never transfused with blood. He was married in a nuclear family with five children who are all well and alive. He does not smoke cigarette but stopped taking alcohol about 5 years ago.
Examination at presentation revealed a middle-aged man in no obvious distress, afebrile, tinge of jaundice, fair hydration status, no significant peripheral lymphadenopathy, and no pedal edema. Vital signs were within normal and breath sounds were vesicular. Moderate tenderness was elicited over the lower three ribs bilaterally. He was managed as a newly diagnosed HbS + C patient in moderate bone pain crisis and discharged home to complete investigations on outpatient basis and to return in a week for review with results. He, however, defaulted follow-up appointment only to return 4 weeks after with a more terrible pain and inability to stand from sitting and lying positions. He decided to go to a private facility from where he was referred back to the Hematology Department because an abdominal ultrasonography result revealed splenomegaly and para-aortic lymphadenopathy and hence a lymphoma was strongly suspected. Laboratory investigations revealed a full blood count with anemia (packed cell volume 27