A 53 year old female with stage IV lung adenocarcinoma presented to the emergency department with acute onset dyspnea that started suddenly when she was receiving intravenous infusion of chemotherapeutic agent pemetrexed. Prior to the infusion, she did not have any respiratory complaints and had a normal chest exam with clear breath sounds to auscultation. She had a history of severe COPD and uses 2 liters supplemental oxygen continuously. She smokes a pack of cigarettes every day and has accumulated 40 pack-year smoking. She was allergic to levofloxacin and doxycycline. She had previously received 5 cycles of carboplatin and pemetrexed and was responding well to the treatment. Upon infusion of the sixth cycle of pemetrexed, she developed severe shortness of breath with wheezing. Her vital signs were oxygen saturation of 80% on room air, blood pressure of 90/60 mm Hg and a heart rate of 110 bpm. Her lung exam revealed reduced airflow in both the lungs with wheezing. She was minimally responsive to painful stimuli and was in severe respiratory distress. She was started on normal saline intravenous fluids. She was emergently intubated using Macintosh 3 direct laryngoscope by EMS personnel in the outpatient infusion center. Prior to intubation, she was given 0.5 mg intramuscular epinephrine. She did not have angioedema on oral examination and was transferred to the intensive care unit. Laboratory studies were normal. Chest X ray did not show any acute infiltrates, except for a stable chronic right sided loculated pleural effusion and CT angiogram did not reveal pulmonary embolism. Her hypotension resolved with intravenous fluid boluses and she did not require vasopressors. She was also given dexamethasone, diphenhydramine, ranitidine and nebulized albuterol. Her ICU course was uneventful and she was extubated after 48 hours. She was discharged home on a oral prednisone taper. Pemetrexed was discontinued and she was started on atezolizumab. Because of the interval disease progression, she was transitioned to bevacizumab and