On June 2016, a Caucasian 48-year-old man consulted his general practitioner for diarrhea, vomiting and epigastric pain, which increased while coughing or leaning forward. He had had a blunt abdominal trauma at work 1 month prior to his presentation. The clinical examination revealed a huge palpable abdominal mass occupying most of the epigastric and right hypochondriac region. The blood tests were almost normal except of a mild increase in gamma-glutamyl transferase. The abdominal US showed a voluminous (18 × 10 cm) heterogeneous mass located in the epigastric region in front of the pancreas and pushing the left liver lobe anteriorly and laterally. There were also multiple (5–6) intrahepatic lesions evoking hepatic hemangiomas. The abdominopelvic contrast-enhanced CT scan showed a voluminous prepancreatic tissue tumor with heterogeneous predominantly peripheral enhancement, measuring about 20 × 9 × 16 cm (Fig. ), associated with multiple hypodense hepatic nodules evoking hemangiomas, although two of them might also evoke metastatic lesions. The patient was referred to our institution for a suspected diagnosis of gastric submucosal tumor with likely hepatic metastases. The thoracic contrast-enhanced CT scan was normal.
He had no specific familial and medical personal history, except allergic asthma and active smoking. His performance status was zero. The digestive symptoms persisted and clinical examination confirmed this voluminous palpable abdominal mass. The case was discussed in the Sarcoma Multidisciplinary Board, and the diagnosis of giant pedunculated liver hemangioma was suspected. It was decided to perform a liver MRI which showed several typical hemangiomas disseminated throughout the liver, with classical enhancement after contrast injection. The largest one was a pedunculated hemangioma originating from the third hepatic segment, with exophytic development, descending in the epi- and mesogastric region, pushing the pancreas backwards. Its dimensions were 20 × 8 × 14 cm (Fig. ). There was no radiological argument in favor of eventual posttraumatic rupture, torsion or hemorrhage. Due to this typical