Patient is a 33-year-old female with a past medical history of systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) and lower extremity deep venous thrombosis (DVT). She has been treated with oral anticoagulants for her lower extremity DVT with complete resolution of thrombus in 6 months venous duplex ultrasound follow up. Her past surgical history is significant for a left lower extremity angiogram with a stent placed in distal superficial femoral artery (SFA). It is unclear what prompted her lower extremity intervention, as patient had no stigmata of peripheral arterial disease clinically or in arterial duplex studies. Her only complain at that time was calf pain; most likely related to her DVT in left popliteal vein. She was seen in clinic with left calf pain, mild swelling of left lower extremity and three blocks claudication of the ipsilateral leg. Her clinical exam did not show evidence of tissue loss, there was swelling of left calf, a dopplerable dorsalis pedis (DP) pulse and a palpable posterior tibial (PT) pulse with sluggish capillary refill and a warm left foot. Patient subsequently underwent arterial duplex studies which showed ABI of 1.13 on the left, presence of high output ATA to anterior tibial vein (ATV) fistula, biphasic flow in the left femoral vein, patent SFA, popliteal artery (PA), with three vessel run off to the foot. In comparison right lower extremity had unremarkable arterial duplex studies as one should suspect in a young, non-smoker female.
Patient underwent an open ligation of AVF ~6 months since her diagnosis. ATA was ligated proximally at the take off by a medial surgical approach. Routine postoperative surveillance was significant for persistent claudication and left calf swelling. A repeat arterial duplex study revealed yet again the presence of AVF.
Surgical options were discussed with patients including another open repair vs. retrograde embolization. We decided that embolization would delineate the AVF site much clearer and efficient embolization of the entire fistulous tract could be achieved as live images are visualized under