The patient is a 49-year-old male with a body mass index of 22.15 and no significant past medical history who underwent a THA on the right side. He has no history of diabetes; however, he does smoke multiple cigarettes a day. He was positioned in the lateral decubitus position with an axillary roll for a posterior approach to the hip. The operation lasted approximately 2 h and 45 min and was without complication. The patient was recovering appropriately until post-operative day 1. At that time, examination revealed absent wrist and finger extension with pain and numbness on the dorsum of the hand. Anesthesia was consulted and helped to formulate the diagnosis of radial nerve palsy. The patient was placed in a wrist brace and began working with occupational therapy while in the hospital. At discharge, he continued to work with occupational therapy for the radial nerve palsy and was followed closely in the orthopedic clinic. At 2-week postoperation, he was progressing appropriately with his THA; however, he still lacked grip strength and could not extend his wrist or fingers appropriately. Therefore, an electromyography (EMG) was undertaken to evaluate the radial nerve further. EMG revealed normal sensory nerve action potentials in the median, ulnar, and radial nerves. However, compound muscle action potential showed slowing with conduction block in the spiral groove and decreased recruitment of the brachioradialis, extensor carpi radialis, and extensor indicis pollicis. The triceps were intact and unaffected. The results were consistent with radial nerve palsy in the spiral groove, or “Saturday night palsy” []. The patient has now been following in the orthopedic clinic for 2-month time, and the radial nerve palsy has been improving. The sensory deficits have decreased and now there is only pain and paraesthesia on the dorsum of the thumb. Weakness and inability to extend the wrist are still present; however, subjectively the patient feels that he is improving. At this time, the patient is