Our patient is a 64-year-old left-hand dominant male who was involved in a motorcycle collision and sustained a right valgus impacted four-part proximal humerus fracture (). He also sustained a left small finger distal phalanx fracture. The patient’s medical history was significant for coronary artery disease. His past surgical history included a right shoulder arthroscopic superior labral repair and biceps tenodesis multiple years prior, and his social history included a history of cigarette smoking and social alcohol use. He denied having any pain or decreased range of motion in the right shoulder before the injury. The patient underwent open reduction internal fixation of the closed right proximal humerus 2 days after his initial presentation without complication. The fixation consisted of a lateral locking plate, separate plate, and screw fixation of the lesser tuberosity, and sutures into the supraspinatus, infraspinatus, and subscapularis that were anchored to the locking plate (). Pre-operative antibiotics included both 2 g of cefazolin and 600 mg of clindamycin per protocol for open shoulder surgery in the senior author’s practice, and this was readjusted throughout the procedure and continued for 24 h postoperatively. The patient was continued on the same antibiotics for the 24 h after surgery. He had a drain placed after surgery, and this was discontinued on post-operative day 2. He was discharged on post-operative day 3, after adequate pain control had been achieved on oral pain medications. His post-operative therapy regimen included a five-pound weight-bearing restriction for the first 6 weeks. He was encouraged to use his hand for activities of daily living. The patient was sent to physical therapy to work on active and active assisted range of motion, beginning with pendulums and progressing to full activity. At 4 months postoperatively, the patient was reporting continued pain and decreased range of motion in the right shoulder. His wound was well healed with no erythema or signs of infection. His motion measured 30o of external rotation with the arm at the