A 19-year-old male adolescent, working in a flower market, chronic ethanolic and smoker with history of intravenous drug abuse, presented with right-sided chest pain and low-grade fever for the past 10 days. There was no history of chest trauma, cough, or breathlessness. A complete examination of the respiratory system did not reveal any abnormality, clinically. The patient maintained normal oxygen saturation and was hemodynamically stable.
His hematological and biochemical investigations were normal. Chest radiograph (posteroanterior and right lateral view) revealed a sewing needle in the right side of the chest [] that was confirmed by computed tomography scan [].
Considering the gravity of the clinical condition, we decided to remove the needle from the pleural space with the aid of VATS as it is a sharp foreign body and mandates removal. The patient was placed in the left lateral decubitus position. Under general anesthesia, a double-lumen endotracheal tube was placed and single-lung ventilation was done. VATS was performed using 30° endoscope through two standard ports at the seventh intercostal space along the right mid-axillary line and the third intercostal space along the right anterior axillary line. The 9-cm metallic sewing needle was clearly visualized impregnated in the right parietal pleura [] and retrieved through forceps after thorough dissection with bipolar electrocautery. The needle was very soft and the eye of the needle broke during removal, making it all the more challenging to carefully localize and remove the broken piece. The patient was hemodynamically stable postoperatively, and an intercostal drain was placed for 48 h after the procedure. Postoperative recovery was uneventful; the patient was discharged on the 4th postoperative day. He is being followed up regularly in the outpatient department and doing well. In view of rarity and associated complexity, we thought of sharing our experience gained from this case. We discussed with the patient regarding sharing of this information in the scientific platform. Patient gave consent to publish