We present the case of a 33-year-old Caucasian male patient. During periods of clinical stability, he used to work with high performance. He has no siblings, practically no social life and few leisure interests. He smokes 20 cigarettes a day and denies regular consumption of recreational drugs or alcohol, although he admits to the occasional use cannabis, which has triggered episodes of behavioural disorders. He has spent long periods off work due to his psychiatric condition, which has led to the loss of his current job.
He refers no psychiatric family history. Somatic history shows obesity and gynecomastia.
Past psychiatric history: he was first diagnosed with bipolar type I disorder in 2003, at the age of 20 years, and was admitted to a psychiatric unit for the first time in 2006. From the clinical perspective, he suffers a very unstable condition with a poor and slow response to treatment and frequent relapses involving startling manic symptoms and severe behavioural disorders. Besides, he has experienced severe drug-induced side effects, the most remarkable being extrapyramidal symptoms, sedation, weight gain and dyslipidaemia. Because of the numerous and troublesome adverse effects, the patient has become reluctant to take medication, which has led to irregular treatment adherence and frequent relapses. Altogether, he has been admitted 18 times since 2006, with an average of twice a year. Thirteen of these admissions were to the acute unit of the Department of Psychiatry in Zamora Hospital, making a total of 256 days. The remaining 5 admissions were to the convalescence unit of the same department, involving a total of 41 days. This is strong proof of the great complexity and difficulty in achieving clinical stabilization of the patient. Moreover, keeping the patient in the inpatient care unit became an almost constant need from the months of November 2014 to March 2015, due to the combination of poor clinical response and the numerous side effects of the medication.
The patient was conscious and well oriented, but showed partial insight