A 45-year-old man experienced abdominal pain and vomiting. He consulted a nearby doctor, who prescribed an intestinal preparation. The patient developed ten episodes of diarrhea the next day and received infusion therapy. He experienced a persistent sense of abdominal fullness and left abdominal pain for 3 days and then consulted our hospital. The patient was previously healthy and had no remarkable medical history or cardiovascular risk factors. He had no smoking habit. Physical examination revealed mild tenderness over the epigastrium without signs of peritonitis. Enhanced computed tomography (CT) revealed an isolated dissection of the SMA in which the false lumen was thrombosed, the true lumen was compressed by the false lumen, and the middle colic artery to small colon branches were obstructed (Fig. ). No signs of bowel ischemia, such as bowel thickening, abnormal contrast enhancement, or ascites, were found. The creatine phosphokinase level, aspartate aminotransferase level, lactate dehydrogenase level, and base excess were normal at 210 IU/L, 22 U/L, 189 U/L, and 0.3 mmol/L, respectively, at the first visit to our hospital (3 days after onset). The lactate level was not measured at our hospital, but there was a mention in the medical information offer letter that it was normal at a university hospital.
Because of the patient’s continuous abdominal pain, we considered the need for emergency surgical therapy and transferred him to our university hospital. He was treated by conservative therapy including antiplatelet agents and prostaglandin, and his continuous abdominal pain disappeared. He was discharged on day 20 and returned to our hospital for follow-up. We performed nutritional management involving central venous nutrition followed by oral intake. We changed his liquid diet to rice gruel, but his nutritional state and oral intake did not improve. On day 35, enhanced CT showed that the area around the SMA was hypodense with abnormal contrast enhancement, and severe stenosis of the true lumen and a 3-cm-long thrombotic occlusion from the middle colic artery were observed