A 65-year-old male, presented with crescendo angina on minimal exertion and was diagnosed with a non-ST elevation myocardial infarction. He had a background history of type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM), ischaemic heart disease with a previous myocardial infarction 11 years prior, hypercholesterolaemia, hypertension and a long-standing history of smoking.
A preoperative transthoracic echo (TTE) revealed left ventricular hypertrophy with an ejection fraction of 75%, no mitral or aortic valve abnormalities and trivial tricuspid regurgitation. He was scheduled for a coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) procedure 5 days after his initial presentation. TOE is used routinely at our institution for all cardiac procedures as part of routine monitoring and patients are consented for its use.
The procedure was complicated surgically by poor targets for revascularization leading to a longer-than-expected case. Following an apparently easy and what was described as an atraumatic placement of the TOE probe, the anaesthetist had difficulty obtaining clear TOE images. The transgastric views in particular were noted as being unusual and a second cardiac anaesthetist was called on for assistance. The TOE probe was removed and reinserted presumably in an attempt to improve image quality and exclude any previously undetected damage on the TOE probe transducer that could explain the poor image quality. On removal of the probe, it was noted that there was fresh blood on the probe and further blood was suctioned from the pharynx. On reinsertion, it was still not possible to obtain good-quality views and the transgastric views in particular were still noted to be abnormal.
After the initial attempt post revascularization to separate from cardiopulmonary bypass failed, the decision was made to go back on to bypass to initiate further cardiac support. The patient stabilized after insertion of an intra-aortic balloon pump (IABP) and initiation of 0.1 µg/kg/min of adrenaline for transfer to the intensive care unit (ICU) post-operatively. Total theat