A 36-year-old white, Caucasian male with past medical history significant only for ulcerative colitis treated with subtotal colectomy about 7 years prior to admission (and subsequently was not put on any medications) presented with sudden onset of right flank pain during sexual intercourse. He described the pain as sharp and severe without prior similar experience. He did not report any penile or sex-related injuries or unaccustomed activity during that sexual activity encounter. Review of systems was unremarkable, except for nausea without vomiting. He denied urinary symptoms. There was no history of smoking or drug use.
In the emergency room, his vital signs were stable without fever, hypertension, or tachycardia. He appeared in moderate distress and only had mild tenderness in the right flank area. Physical examination of other systems was non-revealing with no features of thromboembolic phenomena in the skin or extremities. His complete blood cell count and complete metabolic panel, including serum creatinine, were normal. Sedimentation rate was 25 mm and C-reactive protein was high at 23 mg/L. Urine analysis was only remarkable for four red blood cells, and urine drug screen was all negative. Electrocardiogram showed normal sinus rhythm. Renal nephrolithiasis was suspected, and patient was taken for computed tomography (CT) scan of abdomen and pelvis, which revealed kidney infarction of about 30%–40% of the right kidney. CT angiography showed stenosis of a branch of right renal artery. He underwent renal angiography, which revealed a patent main right renal artery, but one branch had focal dissection with about 40% narrowing (). Given the preserved kidney function (based on serum creatinine level), the absence of refractory hypertension, and the small diameter of the affected renal vessel, it was felt that medical treatment is a reasonable option for this uncomplicated case of renal infarction. Decision was made to initiate anticoagulation with low-molecular-weight heparin and warfarin and out-patient follow-up with his primary physician and anticoagulation clinic in his state, Oregon