The patient was a 35-year-old female who presented to clinic for evaluation of abdominal pain compatible with symptomatic cholelithiasis. She described intermittent, cramping, right upper quadrant pain starting six months prior to presentation. The pain usually lasted up to one hour and was exacerbated by eating. She denied fevers, chills, nausea, vomiting, jaundice, and changes in the color of her stool and urine. Her past medical history was relevant for morbid obesity (BMI of 42), diabetes mellitus, hypertension, and irritable bowel syndrome. She had undergone recent colonoscopy but had no prior abdominal surgeries. On social history she endorsed occasional alcohol use but denied tobacco and illicit substance consumption. Her physical examination was only remarkable for obesity. Her right upper quadrant was non-tender to palpation and she had no palpable organomegaly, hernia, or mass. The patient had undergone laboratory work up which included a complete blood count, comprehensive metabolic panel, and liver function tests all of which were within normal limits. An abdominal ultrasound did not demonstrate a well-delineated gallbladder. There was increased echogenicity on the proximal edge of the gallbladder fossa compatible with a Wall Echo Shadow (WES) sign suggestive of either large calcified or multiple small calcified gallstones in the gallbladder (). No sonographic Murphy’s sign was elicited and the common bile duct measured 4 mm.
Taking into consideration the patient’s characteristics (obese female of childbearing age), along with the history of intermittent right upper quadrant pain, and the US findings, the decision was made to take the patient to the operating room for a laparoscopic cholecystectomy in the setting of presumed symptomatic cholelithiasis. Upon entry into the abdominal cavity using standard laparoscopic technique, the gallbladder was not appreciated. The right lobe of the liver was elevated but the gallbladder was not visualized (). Additional dissection was performed in order to clear the liver plate but still no gallbladder was seen (). No surgical clips or signs of prior surgery in