A 78-year-old man presented with complaints of abdominal pain, nausea and emesis. CT imaging showed findings consistent with GOO. A year prior in July 2016 he had presented to our facility with obstructive jaundice secondary to a pancreatic head mass (3 mm × 2 mm) with sonographic evidence suggesting both superior mesenteric artery and portal vein invasion. He underwent endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) and successful dilatation of the CBD with the placement of a 10 mm × 6 cm BMS approximately 5 cm into the CBD (Figure ). Biopsy of the mass confirmed adenocarcinoma.
During hospitalization in October 2017, esophagogastroduodenoscopy (EGD) showed retained fluid in the gastric body. There was a malignant appearing, intrinsic moderate stenosis in the second part of the duodenum suggesting type II GOO. The biopsy showed active duodenitis with gastric metaplasia and inflammatory exudates consistent with an ulcer. This area was traversed and stented with a 22 mm × 12 cm WallFlex stent using fluoroscopic guidance (Figure ). Three days later the patient underwent repeat EGD for acute, new onset jaundice and failure to respond to medical treatment. Endoscopic evaluation showed a patent WallFlex SEMS without any migration. Endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) with fluoroscopy was simultaneously performed and confirmed the previously placed duodenal and biliary stents. The scope was passed through the duodenal stent with precision fluoroscopic guidance and the bile duct containing the previously placed CBD stent (10 mm × 6 cm BMS) was deeply cannulated with the short-nosed traction auto-tome and guidewire. Contrast was injected and ductal flow of contrast was adequate. Contrast extended to the main bile duct; however, the lower third of the main bile duct, the middle third of the main bile duct and CBD was completely obstructed by what appeared to be a mass with tumor ingrowth (the same mass that had eroded and obstructed the duodenum previously). A 0.035-inch × 260 cm straight guide