Three years before his admission to our hospital, a 26-year-old Chinese man began to manifest, for no apparent reason, restricted affect, poor speech, diminished sense of purpose, and diminished social drive. His affect was diminished no matter what his parents told him. He lacked interest in doing anything, and did not talk to others. When his parents asked him questions, he answered only “I don’t know”. Sometimes his speech was disorganized and incoherent. He also lost desire to work at his job as a bank clerk, although he previously performed well. He preferred to stay at home and did not want to participate in activities or have contact with friends. His sleep and appetite were poor. He showed no disturbance of consciousness. After these symptoms continued for about 6 months, he was taken by his parents and hospitalized in a local psychiatric ward. General physical and neurologic examinations and routine laboratory investigations at that time showed no notable abnormalities. He was, therefore, diagnosed with schizophrenia and treated with risperidone at a maximal dosage of 6 mg per day for 12 weeks. The patient did not respond, and he was discharged with a weight of 59 kg and body mass index (BMI) of 20.41 kg/m2.
After discharge, the patient presented with the same symptoms and he was taken by his parents to our outpatient department 1 year before he was admitted to our hospital. The outpatient physicians diagnosed him with schizophrenia and treated him for 10 weeks with a maximal dose of olanzapine of 20 mg per day. He responded poorly, so he was admitted to our hospital at the request of his parents. The patient reported never smoking and occasionally drinking small amounts of wine. He had no family history of mental disorders. His vital signs were stable, and no abnormal physical or neurologic signs were detected at admission. Blood and urine tests were routine, blood glucose and liver and renal functions were normal, and no evidence of infection was found. His thyroid function