Mrs A, an 81-year-old woman, was admitted to the Department of Infectious Diseases of The First Affiliated Hospital, Zhejiang University School of Medicine because of disturbance in her level of consciousness. Before this admission, the patient was diagnosed with CM in a neighboring hospital, where the diagnosis of CM was made after finding Cryptococcus in the CSF, and she underwent ventriculopuncture and implantation of Ommaya reservoir because of severe hydrocephalus. However, the patient had been previously diagnosed with cerebral infarction before diagnosing CM.
Nearly half a year prior to this admission, the patient ventured out and cut firewood alone after quarreling with her family members. Three days later, she began to feel headache, muscle soreness, and fatigue. Her condition worsened in the following days and she felt extremely weak and even could not walk or eat by herself. The patient was then sent to a local hospital. Cranial MRI revealed multiple ischemic foci located in the junction of cortex and medulla of bilateral frontoparietal region, the periventricular area, and the centrum semiovale. Cranial magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) revealed regional stenosis in the A1 segment of the left anterior cerebral artery and the P2 segment of the right posterior cerebral artery. Carotid artery ultrasound reported multiple plaques in the right common carotid artery with appropriately 79% stenosis. Systemic and supportive treatment did not help to improve her condition. The patient still complained of extreme weakness and poor appetite. Four weeks later, another cranial MRI indicated new-onset lacunar infarction in the bilateral frontal lobe. Cranial CT indicated high-density image near the anterior horn of the right lateral ventricle. Four months before this admission, the patient developed disturbance in her level of consciousness and psychotic symptoms, including persecutory delusion and visual hallucination. Her weight had decreased by 3.5 kg since she fell ill. She was then admitted to the Department of Psychiatry of our hospital. At that time,