A 43-year-old Asian male was transferred to our hospital after undergoing a drainage procedure for a gluteal abscess at another hospital. He was known to have poorly controlled diabetes, and hyperlipidemia on treatment; he was also a heavy smoker for more than 20 years. The complaints started 3 weeks prior to presentation with fever and gluteal abscess which was drained surgically (). The fever persisted despite receiving a combination of gentamycin and penicillin. Two days later, the patient’s condition deteriorated with the onset of shortness of breath and orthopnea. Two sets of blood culture performed on 6 August 2017 grew CoNS, which was considered a contaminant. Further evaluation via transthoracic echocardiography revealed the presence of large vegetation on the aortic valve with severe regurgitation and moderate size vegetation on mitral and tricuspid valve with moderate regurgitation plus aortic root abscess. He was subsequently transferred to our hospital for cardiac surgery.
On arrival, his condition had worsened as evidenced by fever with a temperature of 38.9°C, tachycardia (142 beats/minute), hypotension (96/54 mm Hg), and blood oxygen saturation level of 91%. Laboratory tests revealed a white blood cell count of 14,000/mm3 with 81% neutrophils while kidney profile showed acute renal failure with urea 19.5 mmol/L and creatinine 533 µmol/L. His C-reactive protein level was 200 mg/L.
He was admitted to the intensive care unit and parenteral vancomycin was initiated based on the knowledge of a previous culture of CoNS from the referring hospital. The condition of the patient deteriorated further the next day with refractory heart failure and pulmonary edema due to the extensive valvular lesions and insufficiency with worse blood gas values and desaturation (SpO2, 84%). He was intubated and continuous renal replacement therapy was initiated with a good response as demonstrated by the normalization of his blood pressure and blood gases.
The microbiologist in our hospital issued the result of the positive blood culture of CoNS, which was identified as S. lug