A 61-year-old man arrived at the emergency department reporting abdominal pain, persistent nausea, and vomiting for three weeks. It was localized to the upper-mid abdomen and was constant, dull, and 5-7 out of 10 in intensity and non-radiating. The pain was predominantly diurnal and aggravated with food intake but did not relieve with eructation, vomiting, bowel movements, or change in position. The pain was associated with nausea, followed by nonbilious, nonbloody vomiting unrelated to eating. He had not attempted to treat the symptoms with medications. He reported a 25-pound unintentional weight loss in the last month but denied fever, jaundice, change in the color of his urine or stool, chest pain, cough, shortness of breath, diarrhea, constipation, urinary symptoms, or fatigue.
Abdominal pain associated with nausea and vomiting is a common presenting symptom for patients seeking evaluation in the emergency department. A multitude of disorders affecting various organ systems such as the gastrointestinal tract, cardiovascular, endocrine, metabolic, CNS, renal, hematological, malignant and nonmalignant processes may be associated with such symptoms. A comprehensive history and physical examination need to be conducted to identify potential etiologies to the underlying processes.
The patient’s medical history was positive for atraumatic and intermittent back pain for the past six months. Lower back pain that persisted mostly during day-time worsened with a change in position. Family history was pertinent for high blood pressure and diabetes in both mother and brother. The patient denied taking any medications, herbal, or nutritional supplements. He denied smoking, alcohol intake, or drug use. He had not been sexually active for many years and did not have a history of sexually transmitted infection. The patient was originally from Latin America, but had not traveled outside the US in the past several years and had not seen a physician for the last 20 years. He lived alone and worked as a laborer. On physical examination