A 62-year-old man with a 45-day history of generalized pruritus since February 2017 presented to the medical department. He had been diagnosed in another hospital with senile pruritus and had been treated by antihistamines and emollient cream for 20 days. The itch was not completely relieved, and he came to seek further treatment. He did not smoke cigarettes or drink alcoholic beverages. He had no notable medical history except for hypertension. On physical examination, there were no notable findings except for slight scratch marks. Blood tests showed normal erythrocyte, leukocyte and platelet counts, and urinalysis and chest radiography showed nothing of note. There was no evidence of renal or thyroid dysfunction. Laboratory studies revealed normal liver chemistry. The erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR) was 35 mm/h. A color duplex sonography of the abdomen revealed a large hypervascular, low-level echo, heterogeneous right renal mass. An intravenous pyelogram revealed irregularity of the margin of the right renal calices. Computed tomography (CT) scan of the abdomen and the pelvis showed a heterogeneous mass originating from the upper pole of the right kidney and infiltrating to renal calices (Fig. a). Helical CT angiography (CTA) demonstrated a right renal tumor with a tumor thrombus in the right renal vein that did not extend into the inferior vena cava (IVC) (Fig. b). Further evaluation, including a bone scan, did not demonstrate any evidence of metastases.
A right radical nephrectomy with a complete regional intraperitoneal lymphadenectomy with an anterior subcostal incision was performed in April 2017. No intraoperative or postoperative complications developed.
Gross examination showed a 9 × 8 × 8 cm daffodil yellow and madder red tumor with foci of necrosis. No positive surgical margins were discovered. There was a 2 cm yellowish-red soft tumor thrombus in the right renal vein without infiltration into the vessel wall. The tumor thrombus did not extend into the IVC but did infiltrate into the renal calices. No lymph