A 27-year-old male with no significant past medical history was admitted with right lower extremity pain and swelling that started a week ago. Patient first noted swelling in the right ankle that was associated with pain in the calf and thigh. Pain was described as progressively worsening with tightness and heaviness in the affected leg that was exacerbated with ambulation. Patient endorsed recent short duration of immobility involving a 4 hour road trip but denied any recent surgery, prior history of thrombosis, weight changes, new bone pain, or history of easy bruising or bleeding. No known history of any congenital abnormalities, intra uterine growth restriction, oligohydramnios and no pregnancy related complications was reported.
Vitals on admission included blood pressure B.P 133/98 mm Hg, pulse rate of 100 beats per minutes, respiratory rate 18 per minute, temperature of 97.8 F, and normal oxygen saturation on room air. Physical examination was significant for right lower extremity swelling most prominent at the thigh with mild erythema and calf tenderness. Laboratory showed normal blood counts, liver and kidney functions.
Patient initially received full dose of Lovenox that was switched to low molecular weight heparin infusion. CT scan of chest, abdomen and pelvis was obtained to evaluate potential etiology of thrombosis and extent of DVT. CT scan ruled out pulmonary embolus and revealed an extensive DVT of the right common femoral vein, left common iliac vein, left internal and external iliac veins. There was an incidental finding of congenital inferior vena cava (IVC) anomaly, with no intrahepatic portion of inferior vena cava, and a hypoplastic left kidney (Figure 1A-C). Further evaluation of the right lower extremity with doppler ultrasound revealed acute thrombus occluding the common femoral, profunda femoral and popliteal veins (). Left lower extremity doppler study was negative for DVT. CT scan showed continuation of azygous vein into the superior vena cava via azygous arch which has been highlighted in detail in (Figure