A 50-year-old man was admitted to the Hyogo Medical College Hospital for examination and treatment of an abnormal visual field in mid-July 2011. He was diagnosed with an ONB in the sinonasal cavity. The tumor extended outside of the sinonasal cavity (Kadish stage C), and chemoradiotherapy was performed. No symptoms or signs of Cushing’s syndrome were apparent at that time. Although the size of the primary lesion tended to decrease in 2012, it had extended to the opposite side of the sinonasal cavity (Kadish stage C) by 2014. By January 2015, hypokalemia, hyperglycemia, and decreased eosinophil and granulocyte counts had developed. The patient was subsequently referred to the Department of Diabetes, Endocrinology and Metabolism for further examination of the hypokalemia in mid-July 2015.
shows changes in the serum concentrations of potassium and glucose and the blood eosinophil count during the clinical course of the disease. From 2011 to 2014, the serum concentrations of potassium and glucose and the blood eosinophil count were almost normal.
The patient was a social drinker who had smoked 40 cigarettes a day for 20 years prior to admission. His body weight was 67.0 kg in 2012, 86.0 kg in 2014, and 73.6 kg on admission. His blood pressure was 165/109 mmHg, and his pulse was 80 beats/min. On physical examination, a Cushingoid appearance was apparent, including moon facies, truncal obesity, purpura, and muscle atrophy of the bilateral lower extremities.
Laboratory findings on admission are shown in . The total white blood cell count was slightly increased; the neutrophil count (both segmented neutrophils and bands) was markedly increased, while the eosinophil count was 0%. The fasting plasma glucose level was elevated. The serum concentration of potassium was low, while the serum concentration of magnesium and renal function test results were normal. Arterial blood gas analysis revealed metabolic alkalosis with respiratory compensation. Both the fractional excretion of potassium