A 66-year-old woman presented to the surgical outpatient clinic with a 2-month history of bright red rectal bleeding and intermittent diarrhoea. No history of weight loss, foreign travel or dietary change was reported. She suffered from hypertension but had no other comorbidities. She took amlodipine daily and did not drink alcohol or smoke. No significant family history was elicited.
Physical examination was unremarkable, and routine blood tests were normal. A flexible sigmoidosopy however demonstrated mild–moderate inflammation from the rectum to the rectosigmoid junction, and biopsies taken showed features consistent with moderately active UC (see ). The patient was subsequently started on oral and topical 5-aminosalicylic acids (5-ASAs), but in the following months, her UC worsened and her liver function tests began to rise. Within a year after first presentation, oral steroid therapy in combination with 5-ASAs failed to control the patient's UC, and she was admitted urgently to hospital and referred to the gastroenterology department. However, despite intravenous steroids, antibiotics and ciclosporin rescue therapy, the patient's condition worsened. Her care was transferred back to the surgical team, and a subtotal colectomy with loop ileostomy was performed.
The subtotal colectomy was successful, and no complications of the surgery were experienced. However, shortly after discharge from hospital, the patient began to experience right upper quadrant pain and her liver function tests remained persistently raised. At this point, the surgeons referred the patient to a hepatologist for an opinion. PSC was suspected, and a full serological work up for liver disease was performed. This demonstrated antiproteinase 3 antibody (cANCA) positivity only, and the rest of the serological panel was negative. An oesophagogastroduodenoscopy was performed and duodenal biopsies taken, both of which were reported as normal. A magnetic resonance cholangiopancreatography (MRCP) demonstrated a gallstone in the neck of the gallbladder, but no features of cholangiopathy were observed. Given the negative pANCA result