A right-hand-dominant male patient aged 61 years with insulin-dependent diabetes (height 177.8 cm; weight 104 kg; body mass index 33.4) was referred by an infectious disease specialist (JDT) to our clinic for the surgical management of a recurrent deep infection of the left shoulder. The patient worked as a commercial property developer and had only recently started using insulin for diabetes. Poor glycaemic control was clear from his self-reported history and a high haemoglobin A1C (12.8%; normal is <5.7%). He denied having any other medical problems and he did not drink alcoholic beverages or smoke. As detailed below, about 4 months prior the patient had two arthroscopic debridement procedures and completed an 8-week course of antibiotics for a P. acnes infection of his left shoulder region. When he was first seen in our clinic for the recurrent infection, 2 months had passed from the completion of the 8-week course of intravenous and oral antibiotics.
His left shoulder problems started approximately 11 years prior. At that time he was not diabetic and had a successful and uncomplicated open repair of a torn supraspinatus tendon. In September 2015, he had a second left shoulder surgery for impingement symptoms, and this included an arthroscopic acromioplasty with debridement of suture material from the prior cuff repair. Around that time, metformin was prescribed for new-onset diabetes, but he was not compliant with taking this medication. A subacromial corticosteroid injection was given 7 months (April 2016) later for persistent pain and progressively reduced motion. Three weeks after the injection, a large abscess had formed and it extended from the glenohumeral joint and subacromial space to the subcutaneous tissue over the acromion. His blood glucose was 340 (normal: 65–99). An aspiration of purulent fluid grew P. acnes in fortified thioglycolate broth culture in anaerobic conditions. In addition to two surgical debridement procedures, antibiotic treatment by his orthopaedic