A 72-year-old postmenopausal woman presented to the emergency room with complaints of acute abdominal pain and purulent vaginal discharge. The patient had 2-month history of brown purulent vaginal discharge accompanied with a foul smell; otherwise there was no fever or abdominal pain.
She stated that the abdominal pain started suddenly without any warning earlier in the evening, and she had never experienced abdominal pain or discomfort similar to this previously. In the past, she denied any significant change in bowel or bladder habits. Past medical history was significant for hypertension and without any distinct surgical history. She denied any tobacco, alcohol, or drug use, and she did not have any obvious occupational exposures or chronic family illnesses.
On physical examination, she was groaning with extreme pain, and her vitals were as follows: temperature of 36.7°C, blood pressure 101/70 mm Hg, heart pulse of 110 beats/min, respiratory rate of 20 breaths/min, and oxygen saturation of 97% without the addition of supplemental oxygen. Vaginal examination only showed rotten discharge without cervical and vaginal anomalies. Initial laboratory results showed a white blood count of 9.1 × 109/L and C-reaction protein 116.4 mg/L.
There was a lot of purulent discharge on her vaginal examination, with cervix lifting pain. Because of the muscular tension with obvious pain, palpation of atrophic uterine was not clear. Transvaginal ultrasound and the abdominal computed tomography (CT) showed generalized fluid and free air in abdominal cavity.
The patient was in a septic condition, and was taken to the operating room emergency for exploratory laparotomy, where, upon entering the peritoneal cavity, there was 500 mL of purulent fluid encountered, and 50 mL pus was sent for culture and sensitivity. The small bowel and large bowel were examined in their entirety without significant pathology noted. Thorough examination of the pelvis revealed a hyperemic uterine fundus with associated necrosis; about 1.5 × 2 cm crevas