A 38-year-old non-smoker and teetotaler male diagnosed with PSC without inflammatory bowel disease (the latter ruled out by colonoscopy-directed mucosal biopsy at 3 months prior to current presentation), for 3 years and on ursodeoxycholic acid (UDCA) at 15 mg/kg/day had developed three episodes of BC within the prior 6 months, with the last episode requiring intensive care unit admission for septic shock. Magnetic resonance cholangiography revealed mucosal irregularities in the right and left hepatic duct with areas of beading in segments 3, 6 and 8 of the liver in the absence of dominant strictures. Test of immunoglobulin type G4 serum level was normal, and its associated systemic manifestations were absent. Level of carbohydrate antigen 19-9 was within normal limits in the absence of cholangitis, and parenchymal or bile duct lesions suggestive of cholangiocarcinoma were not evident on serial follow-up imaging.
In view of the recurrent BC, the patient was listed for LT. While on the wait list, the patient developed persistent pruritus (Itch score 6/10) and jaundice lasting for 3 months and experienced a fourth episode of BC. Two out of three prior episodes of BC were associated with Escherichia coli bacteremia sensitive to cephalosporins and carbapenems, respectively. The recent episode of BC was associated with Enterococcus fecalis sensitive to linezolid, to which the patient responded clinically. Considering the high mortality associated with being on an LT wait list, manipulation of the intestinal microbiota through healthy donor FMT (to potentially influence the disease process in PSC) was considered, with informed consent from the patient and his wife. The patient’s nephew was identified as the potential donor, after standard screening protocol.
Sixty grams of freshly collected stool sample was obtained 6 hours before the procedure and homogenized in a blender with 250 mL of normal saline for 2–4 minutes. Two hundred milliliters of the strained and filtered stool were delivered through an endoscope to the second part of the