A 34-year-old male presented with painless gross hematuria. A screening urine cytology was suggestive of urothelial cancer. Magnetic resonance imaging of the urinary bladder showed a giant pedunculated tumor (67 mm × 37 mm × 58 mm) on the anterior wall, with multiple daughter tumors up to 15 mm in size [], but all appeared to be non-muscle invasive. A cystoscopy confirmed extensive papillary tumors occupying almost the entire bladder cavity, except for a part of the right lateral wall. The prostatic urethra was also involved by the tumor. A contrast-enhanced computed tomography revealed normal upper tracts and absence of distant metastasis. The clinical tumor stage was ≤T1N0M0. TUR was performed with a curative intent using the standard mono-polar TUR system (Olympus Corporation; Tokyo, Japan). After resection of a number of daughter tumors, sequential resection was performed for the main tumor. The tumor was highly vascular and hemostatic coagulation was required after resection of every chip. As the resection continued closer to the tumor base, maintaining hemostasis became harder because of active bleeding and the papillary shape which covered the bleeding sites and prevented accurate pin point coagulation. All attempts of coagulation with the resection loop and the ball electrode were ineffective because the bleeding point could not be localised as the vision was impaired. Thus, we decided to insufflate the bladder with CO2 to achieve a clear cystoscopic view []. The CO2 intravesical pressure was maintained at 12–15 mmHg by the laparoscopic CO2 insufflator (high flow insufflation unit UHI-4, Olympus Corporation; Tokyo, Japan), and the bleeding point was localised. Tumor resection was then continued with conventional pure cut mode with intermittent smoke evacuation to ensure visibility. Clots and resected tissues were removed intermittently by flushing with saline.
The conventional coagulation mode often caused tissue carbonization, which was liable to dislodge from the coagulated surface, resulting in inadequate hemostasis. Instead