A 45-year-old Asian male with a history of nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC) was referred to our clinic in the spring of 2016 after he was found to have NPC recurrence. His past medical history was insignificant except for a four pack-year smoking history (2006–2010). He had no personal or family history of allergies, asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), or atopy. The patient was diagnosed via fine needle aspiration of a cervical lymph node in 2013 and underwent definitive chemoradiation therapy (CRT) from late 2013 to early 2014 (cisplatin and conventional radiation therapy (XRT) with a total dose of 56 Gy over 28 fractions). However, 9 months after completion of CRT, a positron emission tomography (PET) scan was suspicious for recurrence. Nasal biopsy was performed, but was found to be negative. Roughly 19 months after completion of his CRT, the patient’s surveillance PET scan was again suggestive of recurrence. In January 2016, the patient underwent an endoscopic left maxillary antrostomy, left total ethmoidectomy, and sphenoidotomy with biopsies at another institution. Pathology confirmed recurrence of poorly differentiated NPC. At that time, the patient’s disease was determined to be endoscopically unresectable so he was referred to our institution for consideration for open resection. Upon referral, a magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) was obtained, which demonstrated extensive left skull base recurrence of the primary NPC with cavernous sinus, Meckel’s cave, and perineural involvement along V3 to the left mandible (). There was also involvement of the orbital apex and temporal lobe dura. Symptomatically, the patient reported numbness along the left side of his face and decreased taste along the left hemi-tongue. He denied any difficulty swallowing, vision loss, hearing loss, or weakness. After presenting the patient at our tumor board, it was decided that the patient’s volume of disease was unresectable, but his excellent performance status and minimal symptoms made him an appropriate