A 52-year-old Han Chinese woman was admitted to the Department of Thoracic Surgery of Beijing Friendship Hospital on 20 November 2017 after multiple nodules were detected in the right lung. The patient had a five-year history of hypertension, denied any history of smoking and drinking, and had a family history of lung disease. On 2 November 2017, she had undergone reserved mastectomy for right breast cancer followed by axillary lymph node dissection at the Department of General Surgery of Beijing Friendship Hospital. Postoperative pathology showed infiltrating ductal carcinoma in the right breast and metastases in 1–20 right axillary lymph nodes. The chest computed tomography (CT) examination showed multiple nodules in both lungs; metastasis was not excluded. The nodule in the apical segment of the upper lobe of the right lung was larger but was not confirmed as malignant. Whole-body positron emission tomography (PET)-CT examination further showed that the nodule in the apical segment of the upper lobe of the right lung was larger; the lesion was considered to be malignant, thus indicating a strong possibility of peripheral lung cancer. No abnormal increase in F18 fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) metabolism was found in the other pulmonary nodules and mediastinal and hilar lymph nodes. Follow-up observation was recommended. It was difficult to preoperatively diagnose whether the multiple nodules of both lungs were primary lung cancer with intrapulmonary metastasis, or lung metastasis of breast cancer. The following two surgical programs were recommended after general discussion among the whole department:
Program 1: Video-assisted thoracoscopic wedge resection of the nodule in the upper lobe of the right lung and wedge-shaped resection of the nodule in the lower lobe of the right lung, followed by resection of the nodule in the upper lobe of the right lung and lymph node dissection, depending on the results of the intraoperative frozen section.
Program 2: Thoracoscopic excision of the nodule in the upper lobe of the right lung, mediastinal lymph node dissection, and dynamic observation of the remaining nodules.
Preoperative CT-guided