A 70-year-old man underwent a colonoscopy after having episodes of bright red stool per rectum and diarrhea. A lower rectal cancer was diagnosed based on a histology obtained through a biopsy of the rectal lesions (Rb, T2N0M0 cStageI (UICC Classification, 7th ed)). The past medical history was notable for hypertension untreated and smoking 50 pack year. His height was 173 cm, and weight was 73 kg with body mass index of 24.4. The creatinine clearance was 87 ml/min. Although the preoperative history talking failed to recognize the symptoms of intermittent claudication and sensory impairment of his lower extremities, a preoperative contrast enhanced computed tomography (CT) scan demonstrated a significant stenosis in bilateral external iliac artery due to arteriosclerosis obliterans (ASO) (Fig. ) and occlusions of bilateral internal iliac artery. There was no coagulation abnormality in his blood test or atrial fibrillation on an electrocardiogram.
He underwent an elective laparoscopic abdominoperineal resection with a lithotomy position. There was no vascular injury or compression with laparoscopic forceps as far as we were able to recognize retrospectively based on the laparoscopic video and the memory. The duration of surgery was 4 hours and 48 minutes. Blood loss was estimated 100 ml, the urine volume was only 50 ml during the operation. In-out balance during operation divided body weight and time of operation was 6.38 ml/kg/h. The patient reported a severe pain in the left leg, when he woke up post-operatively. The left leg was pale and cold, associating sensory abnormality and motor dysfunction; left pedal and popliteal pulses were absent. A CT scan revealed the contrast interruption of left common iliac artery (CIA) over 11.5 cm and suspected to be due to an arterial thrombosis (Fig. ). Under the local anesthetic technique, the left femoral artery was exposed and performed thrombectomy with a 5Fr Fogarty catheter. After a new clot was removed, aortography revealed persistent stenosis