Our patient is a 56-years-old female referred to our hospital after 12 years of symptoms and conservative treatment in the northeast of the country. She complained of progressive drop of the head with incapability to extend neck or to look forward, and denied any serious trauma history or previous diseases. Previous medical records were not available.
She reported that symptoms initiated insidiously, with weakness of the hind neck muscles, with mild cervical pain. After three years, she was incapable to extend the head. In her home region, she was then treated with physiotherapy. By the time she was referred to our specialized center, she had had several falls from her own height without any major injuries or detected fractures. The deformity had become rigid, and she was considered inoperable.
The head was totally supported by her chest, causing face deformity of left cheek and ear. The clinical aspect of the patient is shown in . Even with a passive maneuver in supine position, the head could not be extended, and the anterior left sternocleidomastoid seemed contracted. Superior and lower limbs strength were grade V (normal); sensitivity was normal and symmetric in torso and limbs. No pathologic reflex or signs of myelopathy were found. The patient could barely walk leaning on the walls and furniture, and she refused to use a cane or crutches. Feeding was possible only in the supine position. Investigation was initiated with rheumatology, genetics and neurology specialists. Ankylosing spondylitis and rheumatoid arthritis were discarded by serum exams. Head MRI was normal, and the neurology team also discarded Parkinson's disease, lateral amyotrophic sclerosis and myasthenia gravis, as well as tumors and psychiatric diseases. The patient had no diabetes or hypertension, and she was not a smoker. She was then diagnosed with isolated neck extensor myopathy (INEM), and surgery was planned and patient signed Free and Informed Consent Form for surgery and publication of this case report.