A 70 years old man referred to emergency department of Qaem Hospital, Mashhad, Iran, for rescue percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) with ongoing severe retrosternal chest pain after thrombolytic therapy after anterior myocardial infarction (MI). He had a history of prolonged smoking and consumption of anti-hypertensive drugs. 12-lead electrocardiogram (ECG) showed anterior MI. The patient underwent echocardiography and initial management of acute MI was immediately initiated. Left ventricle ejection fraction was 30% accompanied with severe aortic insufficiency and hypokinetic anterior myocardium as well as mild mitral valve and tricuspid valve regurgitation (pulmonary artery pressure: 39 mmHg). Coronary artery angiography revealed insignificant plaque in left main artery and cut off in LAD, despite normal left circumflex (LCX) and right coronary arteries. Due to severe aortic valve insufficiency, he was candidate for coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) and aortic valve replacement (AVR).
Because of ongoing chest pain, POBA on LAD was performed to reduce pain. POBA was performed on LAD by a 2*15 balloon followed by prolonged dilation with a 3*20 balloon. Post POBA thrombolysis in myocardial infarction (TIMI) 3 was established in the last view.
After POBA on LAD and withdrawing of guiding catheter, a pulsating mass began to grow on patient’s right arm at right brachial artery area. Distal pulses on both upper extremities were symmetrical and there was no sign of distal pallor or cyanosis. Compression along brachial artery began immediately according to possible diagnosis of brachial artery hematoma. The initial diagnosis was brachial artery perforation, so Immediate brachial angiography was performed and no extravasation was seen ().
The pulsating mass was not resolved after compression for several times. Therefore, vascular surgeon consultation was performed and the patient was transferred to the coronary care unit. Surprisingly, after a few minutes, the mass disappeared when the patient started to use his hand by performing active flexion of the elbow. As the patient refused CABG and aortic valve replacement, PCI on LAD