A 72-year-old male with history of penile implant, hypertension, hyperlipidemia, severe peripheral vascular disease with extensive smoking history presented in clinic for severe bilateral lower extremities claudication. Doppler exam showed weak monophasic flow bilaterally. Patient also had a history of left popliteal stent placement and has been taking aspirin and Plavix since then. CT angiography of the lower extremities showed critical stenosis of superficial femoral artery of both lower extremities and a patent stent on the left popliteal artery. Decision was made to perform bilateral lower extremities angiograms via a transfemoral approach with possible revascularization of the right lower extremity (LE) first and then the left side on two different procedures one week apart. Both procedures were accessed through a transfemoral approach that involved balloon angioplasty of the left (L) and right (R) superficial femoral artery (SFA) and left proximal popliteal artery. No immediate post procedure complications were noted, VCDs were deployed and hemostasis was achieved on both occasions. Patient was discharged same day and aspirin and Plavix were resumed.
On the following day after the right transfemoral access approach, patient presents to ED with R groin and scrotal pain. On evaluation, severe tenderness on the R groin and scrotum was noted associated with worsening swelling and ecchymosis (Fig. ). Vitals were within normal limits and initial hemoglobin of 12 g/dl. Ultrasound of the right groin showed a 6.3 × 4.0 × 4.9 cm hematoma (Fig. ), his duplex ultrasound of bilateral testicle showed diminished blood flow on the right compared to the left (Fig. ). CT of the pelvis revealed a pseudo-aneurysm on the R groin originating from the common femoral artery (CFA) measuring 2.5 × 1.4 cm and extending into the R inguinal canal, filled with hemorrhage and extension into the R scrotum that measures 13.7 × 6.4 × 6.6 cm (Fig. ). During his clinical course, he has been hemod