A 27-year-old Caucasian gentleman was referred to the plastic surgery outpatient clinic with a 7 month history of pain and swelling of his left middle toe. The cause of his symptoms was unclear, with the patient linking the episode to minor trauma. Initially, he had seen a chiropodist who diagnosed him with an in-grown toenail. The toenail was subsequently removed; however, his symptoms worsened. At this stage, he was noted to have subungual discolouration. A punch biopsy was performed with histology demonstrating a pigmented keratinous disc, and he was subsequently referred to our service as a possible case of malignant melanoma.
He has no other significant past medical history and did not take any regular medication. He smoked approximately 10 cigarettes per day since aged 15.
Upon review in clinic, he was found to have an ulcerated area over the dorsum of his left middle toe with associated erythema and swelling, which was actively discharging pus but good peripheral pulses. He also reported a 6-week history of similar symptoms on his left index finger, over the dorsum of the proximal inter-phalangeal joint (PIPJ) which had appeared spontaneously. He had been treated with several courses of oral antibiotics by his general practitioner with no improvement. He was admitted acutely for intravenous antibiotics, surgical exploration and washout of both digits, and a biopsy of the left middle toe for microbiology and histology to rule out osteomyelitis and malignant melanoma. Initial biopsy of the nail bed excluded malignancy and instead showed acute inflammatory changes. The index finger defect was further debrided and closed with a local flap.
Following this initial surgical intervention, the patient went on to have a long and protracted clinical course from complications of poor wound healing and necrosis, with multiple hospital admissions over a 15-month period. He was reviewed by the vascular team with full assessment of peripheral vasculature using ankle-brachial pressure index and computed tomography (CT) angiography which did