A 54-year-old man with a past medical history significant for Lynch syndrome complicated by recurrent colorectal cancer (disease free after 2 colonic resections) and recurrent nephrolithiasis presented with epigastric pain following HLL for nephrolithiasis. He initially presented to his local hospital with complaints of flank and back pain 4 days prior to his presentation to our institution. He was diagnosed with recurrent bilateral nephrolithiasis and was noted to have several large kidney stones, including a right distal ureteral stone measuring 1.2 cm and 3 left-sided stones - 2 in his ureter (1.0 cm and 8 mm) and a third in the left kidney (6 mm). He underwent bilateral rigid ureteroscopy with HLL for management of these stones, specifically with a 200-μm holmium laser at a setting of 0.3 J with a pulse rate of 45 Hz (total time of procedure and energy delivered not reported). Each stone was fragmented, except the most proximal left-sided stone located in the renal pelvis, which was removed without fragmentation. The operative note indicated that there was a significant amount of induration where the distal left ureteral stone had been impacted. He underwent bilateral ureteral stent placement following lithotripsy, with stent removal prior to discharge.
He subsequently developed acute, progressive epigastric pain 1 day prior to admission, noting his pain was worse with oral intake and with movement. He denied nausea, vomiting, fevers, or signs of gastrointestinal bleeding. He denied a history of PUD or acid reflux. He denied chronic use of aspirin, NSAIDs, acid suppressants, illicit drugs such as cocaine, smoking, or use of other medications. He did endorse using 4–6 ibuprofen tablets daily for the 3 days immediately prior to his HLL. The physical exam was notable for borderline hypertension (144/93 mm Hg) and mild epigastric tenderness to palpation, without any peritoneal signs. White blood cells and liver function tests were within normal limits, with a lipase of 102 units per liter