A 61-year-old man was admitted with complaints of repeated abdominal pain and fever for 3 months. A mild tenderness and pulsating mass in the mid abdomen, no rebound abdominal tenderness was detected. Vital signs showed temperature: 39.0°C, blood pressure, and heart rate were normal.
The aortic PSA was identified to measuring 6 cm × 6 cm on a computer tomographic (CT) scan. The aortic PSA extended from the inferior border level of the superior mesenteric artery (SMA) to the infrarenal aortic artery, involving the bilateral renal arteries and approaching SMA. The aorta diameters (DIA) of the level of celiac artery and SMA were 18 and 13 mm, respectively. The DIA of normal infrarenal aorta was 13 mm, and the DIA of bilateral common iliac arteries was 11 mm (Fig. ).
The blood leukocyte count was 14.9 × 109/L, C-reactive protein (CRP) was 132 mg/L. There was no evidence for urinary tract infection. The small effusion was identified in bilateral thoracic cavity and pelvis cavity, and the severe lung function impairment was diagnosed. Klebsiella pneumoniae was identified in blood cultures. The cardiac, liver, and renal functions were normal. The patient had a complicated medical history and a long history of smoking. The patient presented to another hospital with a 3-week history of abdominal pain. The subhepatic mass was diagnosed by CT scan, and a percutaneous ultrasound-guided puncture demonstrated an inflammatory lesion from the mass. According to the symptoms, CT, and lab test, the main diagnosis for this patient was: infective aortic PSA involving bilateral renal arteries and bacteremia with K pneumoniae.
Institutional review board approval was granted for this therapy procedure and report. Informed consent was obtained for the hybrid procedures. Hybrid approach was planned because of patient being potential high risk for standard open repair. The intravenous antibiotic therapy with Meropemen was keeping for 2 weeks and the negative results were determined by 3 times of blood