A 56-year-old previously healthy man with heavy smoking history and sedentary lifestyle presented to the emergency department with acute paraplegia while he was attempting to lift a truck tire weighted about 75 kg off the ground. Accompanying symptoms included urinary retention, severe burning sensation in the low back with radiation to the entire back and anterior torso, and decreased sensation over both legs and the genital region. Physical examination revealed paraplegia, decreased sensation to both pinprick and light touch distal to the T10 dermatome, absent deep tendon reflexes of both lower limbs, and bilaterally non-palpable dorsalis pedis artery pulsations. Proprioception and vibratory sensation were normal. The anal tone was normal, and the deep anal pressure sensation, anocutaneous reflex, bulbocavernosus reflex, and voluntary anal contraction were all present. Detailed neurologic examination according to the American Spinal Injury Association Impairment scale (AIS) is summarized in Table . The patient was classified as T10 AIS C incomplete spinal cord injury. Computed tomographic (CT) angiography of the aorta for possible abdominal aortic dissection or ruptured aneurysm showed aortoiliac occlusive disease distal to the subphrenic aorta with prominent collaterals (Fig. ). Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the spine (Fig. ) for suspected myelopathy revealed symmetric hyperintensities in the anterior part of spinal cord at the T9 to T12 level on T2-weighted images and diffusion-weighted images, indicative of acute spinal cord infarct. For aortoiliac occlusive disease with spinal cord infarction, intravenous hydration and anticoagulation with heparin were instituted. The patient opted for medical management for aortoiliac occlusive disease after discussion with vascular surgeon considering the high operative risk, prominent collaterals without imaging evidence of compromised perfusion of visceral organs on CT angiography, and the lack of signs of ischemia in the legs such as chronic ulcer. Anticoagulation was later bridged to warfarin, with the international normalized ratio maintained between 2 and 3. For study of aortoiliac occlusive disease,