In August 2014, a 41-year-old male smoker was admitted to our hospital because of right pleural effusion. After obtaining the patient's informed consent, medical thoracoscopy examination was performed and many parietal pleural nodules were found in right lung. Histopathologic examination showed low differentiated adenocarcinomas in parietal pleural nodules which considered to be metastases rather than the primary tumor (Fig. ). Molecular testing using FISH was carried out on these parietal pleural nodules and found to be EGFR positive (exon 19 deletion). Considering the cancer was EGFR mutated, the patient began to receive treatment with 250 mg gefitinib daily since August 2014. The treatment was well tolerated and the chest computed tomography scan revealed a good response that the size of lesions in right upper lobe became smaller.
Unfortunately, the chest computed tomography in November 2015 revealed the lesions in right lung became larger and new lesions were found in the left lung. Without the doctor's advice, the patient tried Tarceva, Sorafenib, BIBW2992, AZD9291, XL184, and Crizotinib successively. However, there was no obvious curative effect and the tumor gained progress. In February 2017, the patient was admitted to our hospital again. Positron emission tomography-computed tomography revealed that a mass in the right hilus pulmonis and multiple nodules in the bilateral lungs with high glycometabolism, which were considered to be primary cancer or metastases. After obtaining the patient's informed consent, a lung puncture biopsy under computed tomography guidance of the right lung mass was performed. Histopathologic examination showed small cell lung cancer (Fig. ) and the patient began to receive treatment with chemotherapy (etoposide 0.1 g day2–5 + cis-platinum 30 mg day2–4). Unfortunately, the chemotherapy treatment did not work and the right lung mass became larger. In order to get the latest pathology, a bronchoscopy was performed after obtaining the patient's informed consent. Interestingly, histopathologic examination showed squamous cell carcinoma