A 43-year-old male patient, who is single and jobless at the onset of treatment, was referred to the clozapine case team in July 2017 for possible management of severe TD. The illness history of the patient is discussed here. In the year 2005, when the patient presented to the hospital for the first time, he had psychotic symptoms which lasted 1 year; at the time, he received the diagnosis of schizophrenia, catatonic type based on the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (4th ed.; DSM-IV) criteria. He was prescribed chlorpromazine 200 mg daily which resulted in control of symptoms and later on achievement of full remission. Later the dose of chlorpromazine was reduced to 100 mg daily, but after 6 months on the reduced dose, breakthrough symptoms appeared; then dose was restored back to 200 mg resulting in full remission again. The patient took chlorpromazine 200 mg daily for 8 years till he started to develop abnormal involuntary body movements. The first abnormal involuntary body movements were identified in August 2013. The dose of chlorpromazine was reduced gradually till 50 mg/day, and diazepam tablets were temporarily prescribed to alleviate distress. On November 2013, chlorpromazine was discontinued and the patient was prescribed risperidone 1 mg daily with gradual escalation of dose to 4 mg/day. Intermittently, benzodiazepines like diazepam and bromazepam were prescribed to alleviate distress. But the patient discontinued treatment for about 2 months with relapse of psychosis which necessitated admission. He was admitted to the hospital for the first time in June 2014; the diagnosis was schizophrenia, paranoid type with florid persecutory delusions and auditory hallucinations, as well as severe TD with involuntary choreoathetoid distressing body movements which involved the trunk. After admission, he was started on risperidone 8 mg/day along with 10 mg of diazepam with occasional addition of sedatives like promethazine 25 to 50 mg. One month later, he was discharged with hallucinations cleared but delusions still on, and