A 57-year-old male with history of hypertension, gastroesophageal reflux disease, prostate cancer status post total prostatectomy, and type 2 diabetes mellitus presented for evaluation of chronic pancreatitis and unintentional weight loss of 40 pounds over a 6-month period. The patient’s social history was significant for alcohol use (three drinks per week) that he quit 5 years prior to presentation and chewing tobacco. Patient’s medications included pancrelipase 24,000 units twice daily, insulin detemir, omeprazole and losartan. His vital signs on presentation were remarkable for a blood pressure of 173/81 mm Hg. Physical examination was unremarkable except for a healed scar at the right upper quadrant. Three years prior to this presentation, the patient was diagnosed with acute pancreatitis which was thought to be secondary to gallstones and his initial course was complicated by a ruptured gallbladder which required open cholecystectomy. He subsequently developed five episodes of pancreatitis over the span of 6 months before presentation, with the frequency of recurrence increasing to every 3 - 4 weeks.
The patient underwent a magnetic resonance cholangiopancreatography (MRCP), which showed marked dilatation of the main PD with mild ductal irregularity and diffuse side branch dilatation, and the main PD was narrowed at the site of insertion into the duodenal papilla. There was also a mention of groove pancreatitis (pancreatitis affecting the groove between the pancreatic head, duodenum, and common bile duct) by visualization of wall thickening and cystic changes of the second portion of duodenum with surrounding inflammatory fat stranding. Therefore, endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) and endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) were performed and revealed changes consistent with severe chronic pancreatitis classified as Cambridge grade 5, along with main PD dilation to 13 mm in diameter as well as irregularities and stricture in the mid body of pancreas. In addition, hyperechoic strands and intraductal filling defects suggestive of stones were visualized and the common bile duct (CBD) was dilated up to 10 mm with mild