We report a case of a 60-year-old man with a smoking history of 25 pack years stopped in 2001, high blood pressure, hypercholesterolaemia and depression. In 2011, the patient underwent curative medium and lower right bilobectomy for a stage IB squamous cell lung carcinoma, followed by radiotherapy and chemotherapy.
In October 2017, cancer recurrence was diagnosed with bilateral pulmonary and tracheal metastasis. One month later, the patient developed dyspnoea with inspiratory and expiratory stridor in the context of a mixed tracheal mass (intrinsic and extrinsic) visualised by a computer tomography scan of the chest (). The patient was scheduled for rigid bronchoscopy under general anaesthesia and fasted 6 hours for solid food and 2 hours for clear liquids. The examination confirmed the presence of a mixed tumour of the proximal trachea located 40 mm from the vocal cords with a critical narrowing of its lumen over 40 mm in length (). After partial resection of the intrinsic component of the tracheal metastasis using a bronchoscope and YAP (Yttrium-Aluminum-Perovskite) laser (Lokki Lis Laser, Bryan, Woburn, USA), an 18×50 mm self-expanding, fully covered metal stent was placed to contain the residual extrinsic compression. The resection was only partial to maintain the stent in place. The procedure was performed without complications with immediate resolution of dyspnoea. Radiography of the thorax confirmed the correct placement of the tracheal stent ().
On postoperative day 1, the patient experienced severe acute dyspnoea (grade 4 of the modified Medical Research Council dyspnoea scale) at rest with chest discomfort after a period of intense coughing. Oxygen saturation was 94% at ambient air. Chest X-ray confirmed migration of the tracheal stent requiring emergent rigid bronchoscopy for its retrieval (). The dyspnoea was attributed to the extrinsic component of stenosis and the irritation caused by the displaced stent. As he had eaten a full meal in the previous hour, 250 mg (3 mg/kg)