A 67-year-old woman presented to our hospital with a 2-day history of pain and a feeling of coldness in her right hand. In her past medical history she had not received any treatment for dyslipidemia. There is no other medical history or smoking history. Upon physical examination she had no heart murmur or leg edema; her blood pressure was 154/96 mm Hg (left brachial), and oxygen saturation of peripheral artery was 96% at room air. Her right hand was pale and the right radial artery was pulseless. An electrocardiogram (ECG) showed sinus rhythm at 79 bpm. The serum D-dimer level was slightly increased (2.18 µg/mL). Computed tomography (CT) scan confirmed thromboembolism in the distal part of the right brachial artery, left pulmonary artery and right kidney infraction (). Cerebral infraction and stenosis of the main cerebral artery were not detected by the head magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)/magnetic resonance angiography (MRA).
Doppler sonography of right upper limb revealed the disappearance of blood flow at the distal part of the brachial artery, and collateral circulation to the radial artery from the brachial artery. In this case, multiple thromboemboli occurred in both the systemic and pulmonary circulation. Thus, we suspected paradoxical thromboembolism. Transesophageal echocardiogram and venous ultrasonography findings showed the presence of a PFO and DVT (). Thus, we diagnosed paradoxical embolism due to PFO. Photoplethysmogram (PTG) of her right hand was very slow on admission (). The condition of her right upper limb had been relieved from 2 days previously due to the development of collateral circulation. Therefore, we thought that neither emergency operation nor catheter intervention for thrombectomy was necessary in this patient. We started treatment with urokinase (UK) 240,000 U/day intravenous injection (IV) and unfractionated heparin (UFH) continuous IV (target activated partial thromboplastin time (APTT) 60 - 80 s). As her condition and the serum D-dimer level were improving we