The patient is a 52-year-old man with history of severe peripheral arterial disease status post amputation above the knee (AKA) on the left with a non-healing left stump wound and right lower extremity ulcerations. Patient has a long-standing history of type 2 diabetes mellitus and continues to smoke. He was referred for consideration of revascularization given his nonhealing wounds. Our institutional Review Board does not require informed consent or ethics approval for case reports.
Patient underwent a peripheral angiogram from a right common femoral artery (CFA) access site. He was found to have a long occlusion from his mid to distal left external iliac artery into his CFA and proximal left superficial femoral artery (SFA). His right SFA also had a flush total occlusion. The right SFA occlusion extended to the distal portion of this vessel with reconstitution of the popliteal from the profunda femoris (PF). The right tibioperoneal artery was severely diseased and the posterior tibialis artery was totally occluded above the ankle. The right anterior tibialis was patent to the foot and had no significant disease. The proximal left external iliac artery underwent stenting from the contralateral approach at a site of severe 90% lesion at its origin. This vessel was feeding collaterals to his left stump. Patient returns in a few days for staged treatment of his right flush occluded SFA at its origin. Access site from the contralateral occluded left CFA was not possible. A dual access from the right radial artery and right dorsalis pedis (DP) artery was planned. Our case illustrates the feasibility of the radial access approach for peripheral angioplasty using long wires and balloons and shows the feasibility of the pedal-radial access for the treatment of a flush occlusion of a chronically occluded SFA.
The right DP was accessed using a micropuncture needle under ultrasound guidance. A 6F Glidesheath Slender (Terumo) was placed into the right DP. A total of 400 µg of intravascular nitroglycerin