Here, we present the case of a 44-year-old woman with a medical history of coronary disease with myocardial infarction and stent placement at 29 years old. The patient smoked for 10 years until 39 years old and she did not have a family history of heart or breast diseases. She presented with a 2-week history of left breast swelling with a painful and inflammatory mass in the upper-outer quadrant, measuring approximately 7 cm. Under medical evaluation, she received cefadroxil as a treatment. Breast ultrasound revealed inflammatory changes characterized by cutaneous thickening, increasing echogenicity of subcutaneous tissue, superficial laminar collection, and loss of fatty planes due to multiple anfractuous collections (). Blood laboratory analysis showed normal leukocyte count and a mild elevation of inflammatory markers (C-reactive protein and erythrocyte sedimentation rate).
After 1 week of treatment, clinical worsening was noticed, with increasing redness and edema. A new ultrasound was performed showing no abscess formation and she underwent an ultrasound-guided core biopsy (). On histological examination, the breast tissue revealed an extensive, chronic-active inflammatory process which included granulation tissue with suppurative granulomas, some with lobulo-centric pattern, with an optically empty central vacuole and Gram-positive coccobacilli. These findings were present in an area with solid DCIS, nuclear grade 2. The diagnosis of GLM with coryneform bacteria associated with DCIS was established ( and ). Cefadroxil was maintained for 10 days followed by a 6-day course of azithromycin. Prednisone at 1 mg/kg was also started. An initial favorable response to corticosteroids was noticed, but a clinical worsening with increasing pain and fever presented when steroids doses were lowered. Multiple collections in the upper-outer quadrant and lower-outer quadrant developed during next months, requiring multiple antibiotics schemes and several collection drainages under local anesthetics. Cultures taken from the collections were all negative for aerobic germs.
Mammogram and breast ultrasound were performed after 4 months