A 58-year-old man presented with a history of progressive dysphagia and precordial pain after swallowing for 1 month, with weight loss of 5 kg. The symptom did not accompany melena and bloody vomit. Neither his medical nor family history included any relevant disease. At around 20 years old, he experienced a left leg fracture. For the past 30 years, he had drunk 250 mL per day of white wine and smoked 20 cigarettes per day.
When he was referred to our hospital for further examination, his physical findings were normal. He ingested only liquids. All laboratory data and serum tumor markers, including carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) and SCC antigen were within the normal limits. EGD revealed a large polypoid neoplasm that occupied the esophageal lumen 30 to 34 cm from the incisors. The tumor surface was relatively smooth (Fig. A) and part of the surface comprised normal esophageal epithelial mucosa (Fig. B). However, due to the size of the tumor the basal part could not be totally visualized by EGD. A barium swallow esophagogram showed a lobulated polypoid tumor in the lower esophagus (Fig. C). Endoscopic biopsy revealed esophageal malignant tumour (Fig. D). Both differentiation between epithelium and mesenchyma were performed by immunohistochemical (IHC) analysis. However, the insufficient amount of tissue confined to further immunohistochemical analysis. On the characteristic morphology, clinical symptom and biopsy findings, the ECS was the primary considerated. CT examination demonstrated a heterogenous tumorous formation obturating the esophageal lumen without enlarged lymph nodes in the thoracic and egigastric region and invaded to the adjacent organs (Fig. A and B). No metastatic regions were found in distant organs, including the lungs and liver. An esophageal ultrasound (EUS) was difficult to perform on this patient due to the huge mass.
The patient underwent an Ivor Lewis esophagectomy, coupled with adequate lymph node dissection (2-field lymphadenectomy). On a resected specimen showed