An 80-year-old retired veterinary surgeon presented to his general practitioner (GP) in March 2016 following a 2-month history of ‘chest discomfort’ under the nipple on the right hand side of the chest, which he felt on the interior of the chest. He described this pain as 3–4/10, lasting for approximately 15 min each time and increasing in frequency. He noted that at the time of presentation to his GP they were occurring every 2–3 days. These episodes occurred both at rest and upon exercise, though he did note that they were particularly more prominent when on his bicycle or in times of stress.
He did not complain of any symptoms associated to his discomfort, specifically no shortness of breath, palpitations, dizziness, or loss of consciousness.
His medical history included neither history of cardiac disease nor any other significant ongoing disease. He does experience nocturia for which he takes solifenacin and has undergone some surgical interventions. He had a transurethral resection of the prostate in 2007 with no complications. He also underwent a laparoscopic bilateral inguinal hernia repair in the same year with no complications. In the 1990s, he had a procedure to remove varicose veins of the right leg and underwent a rigid cystoscopy for haematuria in the 1970s with no underlying abnormality noted.
He was sent by his GP to the Rapid Access Chest Pain Clinic at his local district general hospital on 18 March 2016. Examination was unremarkable with normal observations and heart sounds. He was advised that due to the nature of his symptoms, he should attend the emergency department with a diagnosis of unstable angina. In the emergency department, he also complained of some right thumb numbness associated with the right-sided chest pain. After the administration of glyceryl trinitrate spray in the emergency department, he felt that the discomfort had slightly diminished.
Upon initial examination by the medical team, the cardiovascular system was entirely unremarkable. Heart rate was 70 b.