A 56-year-old male patient with a history of cigarette smoking, hypertension, and a familial history of juvenile sudden death presented to the cardiology outpatient clinic with a 2-week history of anterior chest pain on exertion. He had been taking a calcium channel blocker (5 mg of amlodipine) and beta-blocker (10 mg of carvedilol) once daily for 2 years, and his hypertension was well-controlled. His chest symptom arose while he was riding a bicycle on the way to his office in the morning, and the symptom was relieved by resting. Chest pain did not occur at rest or on exertion in the afternoon. The patient had experienced work-related emotional stress in the days prior to the symptom onset. His blood pressure was 133/92 mmHg, and heart rate (HR) was 79 beats/min. Cardiac auscultation revealed normal heart sounds with no extra sounds or murmurs. The results of blood tests, including cardiac enzymes, lipid profile, and glucose level, were all within normal ranges. The resting 12-lead electrocardiogram (ECG) was within the normal physiological range, and transthoracic echocardiogram revealed no ischaemic wall motion or valvular abnormalities. The patient underwent coronary computed tomography angiography for suspected coronary artery disease, which detected the presence of a possible stenotic lesion in the circumflex branch (Figure ). Thus, hospitalization was arranged, and transcatheter coronary angiography (CAG) was performed. We did not perform exercise stress test prior to CAG, because our patient had new onset angina and stenotic lesion detected on coronary computed tomography might be a culprit lesion of his unstable angina. In CAG, however, only mild stenosis with small perfusion area was noted in the obtuse marginal branch (Figure , ). Left ventriculography revealed normal left ventricular wall motion (). We did not perform further haemodynamic assessment such as fractional flow reserve or instantaneous wave-free ratio to this stenotic lesion, because the perfusion area was very small and coronary intervention was apparently not beneficial for this