A 56-year-old Caucasian male farmer sought the Oral Diagnosis Clinic complaining of a pricking pain in the lower lip where he had an unhealed wound for about six years. His medical history included hypertension and diabetes and there was no history of drinking or smoking. However, the patient reported being exposed daily to the sun without UV protection. The examination showed a 3-cm ulcerated and crusted area on the lower lip ( and ). There were no clinical changes in the intraoral examination. The clinical findings and the patient’s occupation led to the diagnosis of lip squamous cell carcinoma or actinic cheilitis.
An incisional biopsy could not be performed at the first appointment due to the patient’s high blood pressure (200/120 mmHg). The topical use of 0.1% triamcinolone acetonide cream was prescribed until the next appointment. After seven days, the patient returned to the clinic with significant clinical improvement. The incisional biopsy was performed under local anesthesia and the tissue specimen was sent to histopathological analysis. The tissue sections showed parakeratotic stratum corneum with ulcerated areas, showing in the lamina propria a dense sheet-like infiltrate predominantly of mature plasma cells, some lymphocytes, few eosinophils, and sparse Russell bodies (). The plasma cells infiltrated the entire connective tissue up to the minor salivary glands. It is worth noting the absence of cellular atypia, pleomorphic figures, and mitotic activity. Immunohistochemistry to kappa and lambda immunoglobulin light chains showed polyclonal plasma cells, with a predominance of lambda ( and ).
Considering the clinical and histopathological findings and a negative serological test for syphilis, PCC was diagnosed. The topical corticosteroid was suspended after 10 days of use. Lip balm cream and sunscreen were prescribed and the lesion completely regressed 35 days after the biopsy ().
There was no recurrence after six months of follow-up and the administration of lip balm and sunscreen was maintained.