A 37-year-old male with no significant medical history was brought in by his father with complaints of worsening mental status and functional decline for a couple of months. According to the father, his son had been behaving strangely, and was socially inept, indifferent to his surrounding, lacked attention, did not participate in conversation and was unsteady. On examination, the patient appeared alert, awake and oriented but disheveled and lack of attention. Motor, sensory and cranial nerves were grossly intact except for slight weakness of left arm and leg. With inertia of the left hand on nose to finger test, he had unsteady gait with decreased postural control. He reported to have been smoking about 3 g of marijuana since the age of 12 every day and also had a history of cigarette smoking.
His vitals including initial lab values were all normal. A urine drug screen was positive for cannabinoids. Computed tomography (CT) scan of head showed mild parenchymal volume loss and prior chronic ischemic changes in the periventricular region. Subsequently, magnetic resonance imaging MRI of head was done () that revealed multiple foci of abnormal signal intensity in the right cerebral hemisphere and a small focus in the left parietal region. There was absence of blood flow in the region of the internal carotid artery (ICA) bilaterally. The possibility of occlusion and/or dissection of ICA were considered and CT angiogram of the head and neck was recommended for further evaluation.
CT scan angiogram of head and neck (, ) showed complete occlusion of ICA bilaterally. The patient was transferred to stroke unit and was started with dual antiplatelets aspirin and Plavix. Although overall status remained the same, his mental lucidity gradually started to improve. Extensive workup was done to find the cause of the ICA obstruction. He had normal lipid profile, hypercoagulability workup and vasculitis panel. Screening for human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), heavy metals, Wilsons and hematochromosis showed negative results and