A 21-year-old man from the Indian Subcontinent experienced right sided, painless, sudden visual loss. He presented on the same day and his best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA) was 6/60 in the right eye and 6/6 in the left. His anterior segment examination was unremarkable and his intraocular pressure was 17 OD and 15 OS. On fundoscopy, we found a recent cilioretinal artery occlusion on the right and a normal left fundus. White retinal oedema was present along the artery course leading into the fovea. No thrombi were seen within the artery lumen. The optic discs were healthy bilaterally and there were no other peripheral retinal or vascular lesions. No signs of inflammation were found in the anterior or posterior chamber.
He had normal eye movements and a neurological examination did not reveal any other signs of stroke. The patient was otherwise well with no other medical history. He was not taking any regular medication and there was no significant family history. He admitted to smoking cannabis three times earlier in the day, before his vision loss. He denied the use of tobacco and informed us that this was his first use of Skunk cannabis. He also denied using any other illicit substance, most pertinently, cocaine.
On general examination, his blood pressure, heart rate, and ECG were within normal limits. His full blood count, kidney, liver, and thyroid function tests were normal. Furthermore, inflammatory markers, glycosylated haemoglobin, plasma homocysteine, lipid panel, coagulation screen, and serum protein electrophoresis were also normal. His blood tests did not reveal any signs of dehydration.
The fundus photograph of the right eye showed neuroretinal thickening along the route of the cilioretinal artery (), while the left eye showed normal retinal layers. An optical coherence tomography (OCT) scan confirmed neuroretinal thickening in the distribution of the cilioretinal artery of the right eye (). He was treated with topical beta-blockers (timolol), prostaglandin analogues (lat