A 59-year-old female with a history of non-anticoagulated paroxysmal atrial fibrillation, dyslipidaemia, and tobacco use was admitted with anterior ST-elevation myocardial infarction. Her chest pain started 2 days before she sought medical advice. ECG showed sinus rhythm with ST-elevation in the anterolateral leads with established deep Q waves in leads V1–V4. She was taken directly to the catheterization laboratory where diagnostic coronary angiogram revealed occluded mid left anterior descending artery (LAD) with otherwise unobstructed vessels. Revascularization of LAD was attempted with balloon angioplasty several times but with no restoration of flow. Due to resolution of symptoms and a relatively small-calibre vessel, the procedure was abandoned. Routine post-acute myocardial infarction (AMI) transthoracic echocardiography showed akinesia of the apex and apical walls with moderately impaired left ventricular systolic function. Following stabilization, she was discharged with optimal medical therapy. After 2 months, cardiac magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) was performed to assess for myocardial viability to guide the need for further revascularization attempts and this showed transmural myocardial infarction in the mid to apical LAD territory. There was a large left ventricular apical septum pseudoaneurysm measuring ∼ 80 × 55 mm with laminar thrombus and markedly increased left ventricular volume (Figure ). The pseudoaneurysm was contained within the pericardial space with the pericardium forming its walls. Despite the large pseudoaneurysm, 13 segments of the left ventricle were viable. A routine repeat transthoracic echocardiography with contrast demonstrated a large apical myocardial rupture and apical pseudoaneurysm (Figure ).
To guide the optimal intervention strategy and for better anatomic delineation, cardiac computed tomography (CT) was performed and this confirmed a large apical pseudoaneurysm measuring 95 × 64 mm with significant increase in the size of thrombus occupying more than half of the cavity (Figure ). The patient underwent urgent surgical repair at which time a huge friable clot was found within the pseudoaneurysm (Figure ). She had an uneventful postoperative recovery and continued to do well at 6-