A 59-year-old female presented to Acute Medicine via the Emergency Department because she was concerned about her fast heart rate. Her smartwatch had alarmed several times during the preceding night that her pulse rate exceeded 120 beats per minute (bpm) whilst she was inactive and indicated a fluctuating rate of 130–140 bpm. The smartwatch (Apple Watch Series 2, Apple Inc.) had been used without any medical or diagnostic intention and did not have any specific features to diagnose arrhythmias. The patient remained tachycardic the following morning but felt well and was asymptomatic. She denied palpitations, dizziness, chest pain, shortness of breath or infective symptoms. She gave a past medical history of type 2 diabetes mellitus, arterial hypertension, hypercholesterolaemia, obesity, temporal lobe epilepsy and osteoarthritis. She was a non-smoker and drank alcohol only very occasionally. Two months prior she had suffered a TIA which had been managed in accordance with the locally implemented national stroke guidelines. One day before her TIA she had a brief episode of diaphoresis and palpitations, her smartwatch had then indicated a heart rate of 144 bpm. When reviewed by the stroke team, she was found to be in sinus rhythm, computed tomography of her brain was normal, bilateral carotid dopplers showed no evidence of atheroma. She was also found to be in sinus rhythm throughout during an outpatient 24 hour ECG that was recorded a fortnight after her presentation. Myocardial perfusion imaging in the past had shown no evidence of ischaemia and a normal ejection fraction. On examination, she was comfortable but had an irregular pulse and a heart rate that was fluctuating between 130 and 140 bpm. The rest of her observations were normal. ECG showed AF with a fast ventricular response. There was no evidence of heart failure, valvular disease or an infection clinically. Blood tests including urea and electrolytes, liver function tests, full blood count, thyroid function tests and troponin were unremarkable as was