A 68-year-old male with history of living donor renal transplant presented to the ED with acute onset of profound weakness, fatigue, left upper quadrant abdominal pain, hypotension and lactic acidosis. On exam, he exhibited mild left upper quadrant and epigastric tenderness without evidence of peritonitis. CT imaging demonstrated splenomegaly with a large splenic hematoma measuring 15.7 × 9.2 × 12 cm and associated hemoperitoneum (Figs –). In addition, innumerable osseous lytic lesions were identified. Given these findings, emergent surgical consultation was obtained and his coagulopathy reversed. He remained hypotensive despite resuscitation, thus was taken for laparotomy. Upon abdominal entry, a large amount of old clot was evacuated. The abdomen was packed in all quadrants in the standard fashion. Upon removal of the left upper quadrant packs, active hemorrhage began to well from the region of the spleen which was mobilized and removed via splenectomy. Upon gross inspection, the spleen was hyperemic and abnormally indurated, with an avulsion type injury extending several centimeters across the inferior pole. There was no evidence of pseudoaneurysm or other gross pathology. Given the patient was mildly hypothermic and coagulopathic with continued oozing from the retroperitoneum, the decision was made to pack the splenic fossa and place a temporary wound vac. The patient was transported to the ICU for resuscitation and brought back to the OR the next morning for re-exploration and closure. Despite hemodynamic stabilization, he underwent a prolonged hospitalization complicated by atrial fibrillation, renal allograft failure, VAP, and ultimately PEA arrest progressing to asystole. He died 6 weeks following splenectomy. The pathology from the spleen revealed splenomegaly with parenchyma that was replaced with amorphous and acellular eosinophilic material. Histologic staining (Thioflavin-T) was positive for amyloidosis, AL-type. Oncology was consulted based on these findings with concern for lymphoproliferative disorder given osseous findings on CT, splenic pathology, and history of immunosuppression. Bone marrow biopsy was subsequently obtained which showed more than 50