A 55-year-old man presented to the otolaryngology clinic on referral from his primary care provider for a chief complaint of tongue pain. He reported 30 years of right-sided tongue pain without an inciting factor or event, which over the preceding 10 years had developed into an open wound. This was accompanied by generalized radiation of his pain into his head and neck. He had no other significant medical history and was an active cigarette smoker with a 14 pack-year history. He reported heavy alcohol use as a young adult but had been alcohol free for several years.
Physical examination revealed a 2.5-cm ulcerative lesion of the anterior right oral tongue with central necrosis, with palpable deep extension of abnormal tissue to the midline (). Full motor and sensory functions of the tongue were intact. No floor of mouth involvement was detected, and there was no palpable cervical lymphadenopathy. The remainder of the head and neck examination, including flexible fiberoptic nasopharyngolaryngoscopy, was unremarkable.
Punch biopsy tissue obtained at the first clinic visit was reported to be most consistent with moderately to poorly differentiated squamous cell carcinoma with moderate p16 immunostaining. A positron emission tomography (PET)/computed tomography (CT) scan was performed confirming the right tongue lesion (), and mildly hypermetabolic right level II nodes were visualized.
The patient underwent direct laryngoscopy with biopsies, bronchoscopy, partial glossectomy, and bilateral supraomohyoid neck dissection. Laryngoscopy, esophagoscopy, and bronchoscopy were normal. All intraoperative frozen section margins were free of disease. The glossectomy defect was closed primarily. His postoperative course was unremarkable, and he was discharged on postoperative day 5. At his first clinic follow-up on postoperative day 8, he was recovering well overall but had some minor dysarthria.
Although the initial biopsy was most consistent with squamous cell carcinoma, the final specimen demonstrated findings inconsistent with this diagnosis, prompting further investigation with immunohistochemical staining. The final pathology analysis confirmed