Four months prior to her presentation to our hospital, the patient—a 56-year-old Indian woman—noted the appearance of left axillary skin thickening associated with dysaesthesia. At around the same time, she also developed acute-onset polyarthritis with symmetrical involvement of her elbows, knees and ankles. She reported progressive worsening of her joint pains, which improved with the use of the affected joints, and associated joint swelling and early morning stiffness (lasting more than an hour) over a two week period, and constituted swelling of the affected joints with associated pain, which improved with use of joint, and significant early morning stiffness lasting more than an hour. She self-medicated with paracetamol, with no improvement in her symptoms.
She subsequently developed extensor tenosynovitis of both her feet and swelling and pain over both her Achilles tendons, which significantly limited her mobility and thus led to her presentation to the emergency department (ED) of a hospital near her home. She had plain radiography done, which demonstrated soft tissue swelling with no significant bony pathology and was sent home with oral diclofenac 50 mg twice daily and a referral to orthopaedic surgery. The patient did report some relief in her joint symptoms on diclofenac, but this was partial and non-sustained.
Ten days following her ED visit, she developed redness of both her eyes which was associated with grittiness, blurring of vision and photophobia. She was seen by an ophthalmologist who diagnosed her with bilateral acute anterior uveitis and referred the patient to a rheumatologist for possible seronegative arthritis given her polyarthritis.
At her private rheumatologist review a week later, the patient was noted to have a psoriasiform rash over her upper limbs, hairline and scalp with florid synovitis in both ankles and knees. A diagnosis of psoriatic arthropathy was made, and the patient was given oral methotrexate 10 mg weekly and prednisolone 5 mg twice daily, to which she