A 52-year-old Caucasian woman presented to the emergency department with a 3-day history of severe right leg pain associated with a cold and pale foot. Prior to this episode, she described a two-month history of mild intermittent claudication. There was no history of trauma. Pertinent past medical history included hypertension, a significant smoking history of approximately 34-pack-years and obesity. She had a family history of ischaemic heart disease, peripheral vascular disease and hypertension in first degree relatives. Physical examination revealed normal femoral pulses bilaterally as well as normal popliteal, dorsalis pedis and tibialis posterior pulses on the left. On the right, the popliteal, tibialis posterior and dorsalis pedis pulses were absent in association with a cold foot and a capillary refill time of approximately 5 seconds. There were no palpable masses in the lower extremities or gluteal region. There was diminished sensation in the right lower extremity in the distribution of the common and superficial peroneal nerve. There was no motor deficit.
In anticipation of arterial occlusive disease, an urgent CT angiogram of the aorta and lower extremities was performed with unexpected results. Bilateral sciatic arteries supplying the popliteal arteries were identified (Figs A and A). Native bilateral superficial femoral arteries were present but small in comparison. The right sciatic artery was occluded at the sciatic notch (Figs B and B) with reconstitution of the artery within the mid thigh. Distal to this, the posterior tibial and peroneal arteries were patent. The proximal anterior tibial artery was patent, but distally occluded. There was no stenosis or occlusion on the left, with three-vessel run off below the knee.
The patient was started on an infusion of low-molecular weight heparin whilst awaiting definitive treatment. The patient underwent a right sided femoro-popliteal bypass using a 8 mm polytetraflouroethylene (PTFE) prosthetic graft. The procedure was well tolerated and without complication. Post-operatively, an arterial duplex scan showed biphasic flow in