This is a 45-year-old male patient with the diagnosis of squamous carcinoma of the tongue originally manifested as oral leukoplakia in the right lingual area, treated with laser vaporization for several years. A head and neck MRI revealed tumor-related lymphadenopathies. Due to the extension of his disease, the patient underwent a partial right glossectomy and functional neck dissection.
During the postoperative period, the patient experienced severe (VAS 80–90) and persistent pain in the anterior neck region. The pain was treated for several years in other pain centers with neuromodulators to include gabapentinoids, tricyclic antidepressants and opioid analgesics with minimal results. The patient continued to report severe pain during his initial visits (VAS 90), localized in the retroauricular and occipital areas, as well as the upper region of the chest and shoulder. The pain was described as severe, neuropathic in nature associated with dysesthesia, allodynia, hyperalgesia, but no hypoesthesia. He also mentioned increased pain with ipsilateral rotation of the head to the affected side.
Physical examination showed dysesthesia in the territory of the following nerves: great auricular, transverse cervical and supraclavicular nerves. The patient experienced severe allodynia over the territory of the superficial cervical and supraclavicular nerves. The examination did not disclose any areas of hypoesthesia. The patient did not present any signs of motor deficits in the upper extremities, and the reflexes were normal.
With these symptoms and physical examination findings, the patient was diagnosed with chronic postoperative pain associated with the alteration of his cervical plexus. Pharmacological therapy with amitriptyline 50 mg each 24 hrs, pregabalin 150 mg each 12 hrs and tapentadol 100 mg each 12 hrs was kept during the interventional procedure.
In view of the patient’s refractoriness to the pharmacological treatment, he was offered an ultrasound-guided cervical plexus block using local anesthesia with the purpose of confirming the diagnosis. We have informed the patient about the risks and benefits secondary to the treatment