An 81-year-old man never-smoker was referred to our hospital due to cough, sputum and fever continuing for over 2 weeks on Sept 1, 2016. In all the patient’s medical history, he had only suffered from hyperlipidemia and gallbladder stones, and had received surgical treatment for cervical dislocation 5 years ago. He denied previous diseases, including cancer or malignant tumors, and had never received any radiation or chemotherapy, and had never been exposed to any particular substance, such as arsenic. There are only occasional small amounts of alcohol in his life and no history of heavy drinking or alcoholism. Because of the distance of time and the poor medical conditions of many years ago, the patient was unable to account for the cause of death and illness of his parents and family members. Computed tomography (CT) of this patient’s chest showed an abnormal mass shadow in his left lower lung, mediastinal lymph node enlargement. The serum concentration of the serum carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) was 53.32 ng/mL, and prostate specific antigen (PSA) was >100ng/mL. Abnormal signal foci in the central region of prostate magnetic resonance imaging, the bladder is poorly filled, with several prominent shadow-like sacs on the left side wall. The whole body bone imaging examination showed abnormal bone metabolism, consistent with the signs of multiple bone metastases (). The histopathologic findings revealed hypodifferentiated adenocarcinoma after a biopsy specimen obtained by fiber-optic bronchofiberscopy (). After the same detailed understanding of the process of prostate puncture and cystoscopy, the painful experience of bronchoscopy made the patient firmly refuse further invasive examination, because both prostatic puncture and cystoscopy are invasive examination. According to the rules, the clinician must obtain the patient’s consent for invasive examination, otherwise it can not be carried out.
Then, the EGFR mutation status of the specimens obtained by bronchoscopy was investigated, and the result showed both exon 19 deletions and an L858R point in exon 21