A 46-year-old man was admitted to Matsushita Memorial Hospital, Osaka, Japan because of an abnormal electrocardiogram. The patient had noticed exertional chest discomfort for a few months, but did not seek medical care because his symptoms improved with rest and had not changed in frequency or severity over time. One day before admission, he had a 30-minute episode of chest discomfort at rest in the morning. The next day, his chest symptoms reportedly recurred during rest in the morning and lasted for approximately one hour. The patient visited his physician in the afternoon and was found to have an abnormal electrocardiogram. He was transferred to the emergency room of the hospital, when his symptoms had already disappeared. The patient had a history of hypertension but had taken no drugs. He was a current smoker with a 25 pack-year history.
His physical examination was normal, other than a blood pressure of 189/130 mmHg. An electrocardiogram showed normal sinus rhythm, a heart rate of 65 beats per minute, ST-segment elevations in V1 and V2, and negative T waves in anterior and lateral leads []. His chest radiograph was unremarkable. His troponin T level was 1.74 ng/mL (reference, < 0.1 ng/mL). Echocardiography demonstrated borderline abnormalities of wall motion in the ventricular septum. A diagnosis of acute myocardial infarction was made, although the infarcted area remained undetermined.
Intravenous administration of isosorbide dinitrate, followed by heparin (5000 units), did not alter his electrocardiogram. Emergency coronary angiography, which was performed after initiation of aspirin (200 mg) and clopidogrel (300 mg), revealed no significant stenosis with a delayed flow in the second septal branch of the LAD []. Intravascular ultrasound was done in the second septal branch for further examination because the delayed flow in the second septal branch of the LAD did not improve after administration of intracoronary isosorbide dinitrate, intravascular ultrasound of the LAD, and inserting a wire