The patient is a 66-year-old African-American female with complex past medical history pertinent for renal failure on hemodialysis, hypertension, heart failure, and hepatitis C requiring previous liver transplantation. She had several hospitalizations for hypertension and pulmonary edema. She was maintained on carvedilol and nifedipine for hypertension, as well tacrolimus for her liver transplantation immunosuppression. Regarding her hypertension, her systolic blood pressures were consistently 180–190 mmHg. Her social history was pertinent for ongoing tobacco use, with an approximately fifty pack-year smoking history.
The patient was evaluated for a scalp lesion. This nodule was problematic for her as it caused discomfort when she brushed her hair. She denied ever noting drainage, bleeding, or spontaneous pain in the area. On exam, the nodule was located on the superior-most portion of her scalp and approximately 1.5 cm in size. It was mobile, firm, and non-tender. Due to the nature of the nodule, it was believed to be a lipoma or a sebaceous cyst. As this nodule was problematic for her, she elected to pursue excision. Surgical consent was obtained.
The day of surgery, her systolic blood pressure was elevated to 190 mmHg. After several hours of pharmacologic intervention, her systolic blood pressure was able to be brought down to the 160 mmHg range, and she was taken to the operating room. Given her hypertension and complex medical history pertinent for persistent pulmonary edema, her excision was performed under local anesthesia.
The patient was placed on the operating table in supine position. Clindamycin was given within half hour of skin incision. The lesion appeared to have a small umbilicated area, raising the suspicion that the lesion was actually a sebaceous cyst. After infusion of local anesthetic, an elliptical incision was made in a transverse fashion over the lesion. Sharp dissection was used to encircle the lesion which was approximately two centimeters by two centimeters in size. The lesion was excised in its entirety without