A 20-year-old male, single, Caucasian patient admitted to an emergency room (ER) with shortness of breath, chest pain, and anger. We could not get the information about physical examination and laboratory workup done in that emergency service. He was diagnosed with pneumonia and prescribed moxifloxacin.
After 2 days with antibiotic therapy, the patient complained of difficulty in breathing and readmitted at September 28, 2017. He had respiratory tachypnea, and his vital signs were as follows: oxygen saturation: 92%, blood pressure: 140/70 mmHg, and pulse: 130/min. On physical examination, no breathing sounds could be heard on the left lung with auscultation. He had uncontrolled fast speech and aggressive behaviors. In the first whole blood count we could reach, the white blood cell (WBC) count was 6900 and the neutrophil count was 2710.
Left lung pneumothorax was detected on chest X-ray, and thorax computerized tomography (CT) was requested for detailed evaluation. However, he opposed and beated one of the hospital officials, so the patient was referred to a mental health hospital.
The patient had never consulted to a psychiatrist before. There was no physical disease or psychiatric disorder mentioned in the patient's family history. He was a real estate agent, living with his mother and father. He was smoking but did not have any alcohol or substance abuse. In his psychiatric evaluation in the mental health hospital, the diagnosis of manic episode due to antibiotic moxifloxacin was considered and olanzapine was recommended. For the treatment of pneumothorax and psychiatric disorder together, he was transferred to our general hospital and has never used olanzapine.
He was hospitalized in thoracic surgery inpatient clinic. The tube thoracostomy had to be done, but it could not be performed because of aggressive behaviors due to mania. Although local anesthesia was preferred, he could only let this procedure with deep sedation in the operating room. Postoperative chest X-ray showed that the left