A 37-year-old male coughed up a large mass into the back of his mouth while swallowing. He pushed the mass back down his throat and he sought medical attention following this episode. He has chronic depression and smoked a pack of cigarettes a week for thirteen years but stopped smoking a year prior to presentation. A barium swallow was done which was reported as either an ‘… oesophageal duplication cyst of the cervical oesophagus … or less likely a polyp.’ A CT scan confirmed an intraluminal cervicothoracic oesophageal lesion consistent with a large fibrovascular polyp. He then underwent upper gastrointestinal endoscopy which confirmed a large mass on a stalk extending from the cervical oesophagus to 30 cm into the oesophagus. He was then referred for surgical resection. Clinical examination identified a Grade II/VI systolic murmur. Echocardiogram showed mild tricuspid, mitral and pulmonary regurgitation with mitral valve prolapse and a small secundum atrial septal defect. A preoperative diagnosis of a giant fibrovascular polyp (GFP) of the oesophagus was made, and the patient was scheduled for surgical excision.
Under general anaesthesia, he underwent resection of the oesophageal polyp. An incision along the anterior border of the left sternocleidomastoid muscle was made. An enlarged left lobe of the thyroid was mobilized and retracted medially, and the sternothyroid muscle was partially divided. The cervical oesophagus was dissected out circumferentially and encircled with Nylon tape. A longitudinal 6 cm full thickness oesophagotomy was made on the left lateral aspect of the oesophagus. The polyp was identified and delivered into the wound through gentle traction. The polyp measured 14 cm in length and 3 cm in diameter. The polyp stalk was excised down to the submucosa at its point of attachment to the proximal cervical oesophagus. The oesophagus was closed in two layers with absorbable sutures. He had an uneventful post-operative course and was discharged home after a swallow with water soluble contrast showed no leak on postoperative day seven. He developed ho