A 61-year-old white Hispanic female with symptoms of CD for 10 years was diagnosed with CD (involving her esophagus, stomach, ileum and colon). She was started on infliximab with great improvement in her disease. She additionally had a past medical history of diabetes, hypothyroidism, diverticulosis and gastroesophageal reflux disease. In addition to infliximab, her medications included levothyroxine, sitagliptin phosphate, metformin, pravastatin, lansoprazole and vitamin D. She actively smoked cigarettes and rarely drank any alcohol. While she was on infliximab, the patient developed dysphagia and an esophagogastroduodenoscopy (EGD) was performed revealing candida esophagitis, which was successfully treated with fluconazole. A year after the start of infliximab in 2014, she presented with an unintentional weight loss of more than 2 kg, fatigue, abdominal pain and chronic intermittent diarrhea with some rectal bleeding. The patient’s laboratory studies revealed a normal CBC, CMP, ESR and CRP. Stool for culture, ova and parasites, and C. difficile toxin PCR were negative for any evidence of infection. She had an EGD with small bowel biopsies that was also negative for celiac disease or other pathology. A surveillance colonoscopy was performed and showed few scattered aphthous ulcerations in the distal terminal ileum and complete mucosal healing of her colon. Histopathology of the colonic biopsies showed inactive CD and a diffuse mild chronic colitis with a thickened collagen band (>25 μm) throughout the colon that is consistent with CC (). She was started on cholestyramine and her symptoms of CC completely resolved. She was then maintained on cholestyramine long term to control her CC. Also, in the meantime, the dose of infliximab was reduced in the patient due to recurrent candida esophagitis. A repeat colonoscopy was performed in 2016 for colon cancer surveillance and there was resolution of the histological changes of CC and the CD was inactive in the terminal ileum and colon with complete mucosal healing and inactive colitis on random biopsies.