A 58-year-old male with a history of well-controlled hypertension, chronic smoking, and recently diagnosed biopsy-confirmed small cell lung cancer (SCLC) of the left upper lobe presented to the hospital with a left field cut, right gaze palsy, and left hand weakness (). He had previously been admitted to an outside hospital after developing sudden-onset tonic-clonic seizures and expressive aphasia. A magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scan of the brain at that time revealed scattered subcentimeter ischemic infarcts in the right and left frontal lobes, right parietal lobe, and the left cerebellar hemisphere. He was transferred to our institution for further management.
Upon admission, the patient was admitted to the neurosciences intensive care unit for further monitoring. He was placed on continuous electroencephalographic monitoring. Computed tomography (CT) of the brain showed new mild hypodensities in the right subcortical frontal lobe with stable hypodensities in the periventricular white matter, left subcortical frontal and left occipital lobes (). A transthoracic echocardiogram (TTE) revealed a moderately dilated left atrium with a 40 × 39 mm spherical echogenic, heterogeneous mass originating from a left pulmonary vein (, ). Given that the patient had no significant cardiovascular history, it was concluded that the embolic infarcts were likely secondary to tumor shower from the left atrial metastasis from his primary SCLC. The patient was scheduled to undergo cardiac MRI imaging to further characterize the left atrial lesion and extent of invasion, but given the risk of intubation and sedation, this was deferred. A CT-angiogram and chest X-ray of the chest was conducted which demonstrated encasement of the left main pulmonary artery with direct extension of the left pulmonary vein and left atrium (, ).
In the setting of metastatic left atrial invasion with metastatic thromboembolic spread to the brain, the patient was started on anticoagulation with a heparin drip in the hospital and later transitioned to enoxaparin. His neurologic status improved and he was transferred to the oncology service for initiation