A 25-year-old woman presented in 1994 to the ophthalmology department with sustained episodes of flashes affecting the vision in both eyes. She was morbidly obese weighing 140 kg and a smoker. On examination, her optic discs and fundi were normal, but she was noted to have a transient drop in her visual acuity that normalized over a few days. For the on-going troublesome migrainous phenomenon, she was referred to neurology where she reported episodes of blurred vision, paraesthesia in the left lower jaw, left arm and leg. She was experiencing monthly right-sided headaches, associated with photophobia, which resolved within 24 hours. Examination was normal with no evidence of focal neurological deficit. Multiple sclerosis was considered as a diagnosis but later deemed unlikely. She was thought to have complicated migraine, and she was discharged. In 1998, she was re-referred to the neurology department with intermittent tingling on both sides of her body. This was accompanied by a sensation of imbalance. She had some short lasting visual obscuration. Neurological examination was normal. A magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the brain was organized but could not be performed due to morbid obesity. In 2002, she presented to the emergency eye department with bilateral granulomatous uveitis. Retinal fundoscopy revealed multifocal retinal periphlebitis. The optic discs appeared healthy, and there was no retinal cystoid macular oedema. Blood tests showed a normal ANA, antiphospholipid screen, full blood count, an ESR of 28 mm/hour and the presence of an atypical ANCA. The ANCA prompted a referral to the rheumatology department. An MRI of the brain showed lesions that involved the deep white matter (Fig. ). Over the next few years, she was monitored in a combined rheumatology–neurology clinic. Neurological examination remained normal. A Lumbar Puncture (LP) was not performed due to the body habitus. Visual evoked potentials were normal. Between 2002 and 2004, she had episodes