A 72-year-old female was admitted to our hospital with acute cerebellar infarction and signs of nausea, vomiting, ataxia, and subsequent anorexia. The medical history of the patient included hypertension and arrhythmia, although it was unclear whether the patient ever experienced atrial fibrillation. The patient had no diabetes, coronary heart disease, hyperlipidemia, and no history of smoking and alcohol abuse. During physical examination, the patient was conscious, fluent in speech, with both eyeballs showing horizontal nystagmus. The limb muscle tone of the patient was normal, with signs of ataxia in left upper and lower limbs. Other items of the physical examination showed normal results. The routine blood test, liver and kidney function, electrolytes, blood glucose, and blood coagulation results of the patient were also normal. The head magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the patient showed bilateral cerebellar infarction (Fig. ).
During hospitalization the appetite of the patient became worse. After 1 month of hospitalization, the dizziness, nausea, and vomiting of the patient were not alleviated. The patient then received another head MRI examination. No other abnormalities were found in this head MRI, except the marks of previous cerebral infarction. After being treated with benzaisol and ondansetron, the above symptoms of the patient gradually improved. Nevertheless, the appetite of the patient got worse and hence intravenous administration of nutritional support was needed. The patient eventually developed hyponatremia after 1-week administration of parenteral nutrition supplement, including high glucose, although the supplement of vitamins was not sufficient. The blood sodium level of the patient was 121 to 128 mmol/L despite the use of an appropriate sodium supplement. The blood osmolality and urine osmolality of the patient were 256 and 685 mOsm/Kg, respectively. On day 14 of parenteral nutrition supplement, the patient presented with hypotension and apathy. The blood pressure of the patient dropped to 95/60 mmHg and stayed there after all antihypertensive drugs were stopped. The patient developed consciousness disorder on day 20 of parenteral nutrition supplement and was