A 70-year-old female, known case of gout, presented to our center through emergency department with 2 weeks history of right upper quadrate (RUQ) pain. The pain was sudden with no radiation, relieved by analgesia, not related to food. There was no fever, no vomiting, no change in bowel habit or stool color, and no jaundice. No history of trauma. No remarkable surgical history prior to her complaint. She was not a smoker. The physical examination disclosed only an abdominal tenderness in the RUQ.
Laboratory investigation revealed mild leukocytosis with normal liver enzymes, normal bilirubin level, and normal liver function panel. Also, the tumor marker tests were performed after awhile and revealed elevation in cancer antigen 19–9 (CA19-9) (291.6 U/mL).
Radiological studies and interventions were conducted. Abdominal ultrasound revealed distended gallbladder with stone and suspicion of soft tissue mass. Then, an enhanced computerized tomography (CT) scan of the chest, abdomen, and pelvis was performed and demonstrated an irregular enhancing diffuse wall thickening of the gallbladder mainly at the fundus with an exophytic mass lesion measuring about 5×6 cm abutting the hepatic flexure with fatty infiltration of the liver and hypodense hepatic lesions noted in the gallbladder bed with largest measuring about 1.3 cm in diameter. Also, the proximal transverse colon showed wall thickening with regional lymphadenopathy, ( and ). Then, the patient underwent positron emission tomography (PET) scan that also demonstrated intensely increased uptake involving the gallbladder wall as well as exophytic mass coming from the gallbladder strongly suspicious for primary malignancy. Also, there are multiple foci of increased uptake in the liver at the gallbladder bed representing direct invasion of the primary gallbladder tumor into liver. The multiple enlarged lymph nodes seen on CT images were hypermetabolic on PET scan which was consistent with metastatic lymphadenopathy, ).
While the lower gastrointestinal endoscopy was obtained, and it was unremarkable, the possibility of colon cancer