A 27-year-old woman was referred to our hospital with suspected acute pancreatitis after a sudden onset of epigastric pain, and serum amylase elevation of 628 U/L. The patient revealed a previous history of epigastric pain occurring several times a year for nearly a decade, which always healed spontaneously. She smokes 10 cigarettes per day, drinks socially, but has no family history of pancreatic diseases. Physical examination revealed moderate epigastric tenderness. The laboratory tests indicated a slight elevation of white blood cell count, and serum amylase levels decreased within the normal limits. Abdominal contrast-enhanced computed tomography (CE-CT) demonstrated a 25-mm cystic lesion (Fig. A) and a low-density area on the right upper side of the cystic lesion (Fig. B and C). The patient was hospitalized for extensive follow-up, and complained about severe epigastric pain in the evening. Abdominal CT confirmed the acute pancreatitis diagnosis, and revealed that the wall of the cystic lesion was thickened, whereas the border between the cystic lesion and adjacent pancreatic parenchyma became unclear. In addition, the low-density area on the right upper side could not be distinguished (Fig. D–F). Heavily T2-weighted image (T2WI) of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) revealed a heterogeneous high intensity area with an irregular surface and a surrounding thickened low intensity area (Fig. A). Magnetic resonance cholangiopancreatography revealed a slight dilation of the tail side of the cystic lesion pancreatic duct, whereas the communication between the cystic lesion and the main pancreatic duct was not confirmed (data unavailable). Endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) imaging revealed a marked wall thickening and multiple elevated lesions inside the cystic lesion (Fig. D). The elevated lesions were estimated to be debris because the CT dynamic study reported no enhanced lesions inside (Fig. D and F). The patient received a conservative treatment and the clinical symptoms improved. Based on these findings, this lesion was diagnosed as a possible