This patient is a 69-year-old gentleman who had recently stopped smoking and was referred with clinical and echocardiographic features suggestive of severe aortic stenosis He gave a history of episodes of palpitations which were diagnosed to be supraventricular tachycardia and was treated medically.
The X-ray chest (PA view) showed bilateral emphysematous lungs, confirmed on CT scan of the chest. Pulmonary function tests were within acceptable limits (FEV1=1.82 liters; FVC=4.4 liters). He underwent an echocardiogram which showed a calcified bicuspid aortic valve with severe aortic stenosis, an aortic valve area of 0.7 cm2 and a mean gradient of 56 mmHg. All other valves were within normal limits. The right atrium and coronary sinus were found to be dilated, with no evidence of a left-to-right shunt. Coronary angiogram was essentially normal except for mild calcification in the left main coronary artery. The ascending aorta was mildly dilated with a diameter of 40 mm.
He was taken up for an aortic valve replacement. There was difficulty encountered during central venous cannulation through the right internal jugular vein as the catheter could not be advanced beyond a certain length; however, since the central venous pressure trace was showing an acceptable graph, the catheter was fixed at the 12 cm mark. During the surgery, the right atrium was found to be dilated. The innominate vein was situated in a higher than usual position. RSVC was found to be absent and represented by a fibrous strand without any lumen and a large PLSVC was found draining into the coronary sinus, ( and ). There was no other congenital cardiac anomaly noted. Only antegrade blood cardioplegia was used. The routine retrograde cardioplegia could not be used as the coronary sinus was hugely dilated due to PLSVC draining directly into it.
The aortic valve was bicuspid and heavily calcified. It was excised and replaced with a 25 mm St. Jude bileaflet mechanical aortic valve after decalcification of the