A 64-year-old male with multiple cardiovascular risk factors (arterial hypertension, dyslipidemia, former smoking habit and obesity, with a body mass index of 33 kg/m2) was admitted to our center for an elective coronary angiography after the onset of typical angina with a positive stress test.
Coronary angiography revealed a significant multivessel disease (critical stenosis of the proximal left anterior descending artery and chronic total occlusion of the left circumflex artery, with collateral circulation from the right coronary artery), for which a surgical revascularization was planned [].
As preoperative workup, the patient underwent transthoracic echocardiography (TTE), with poor acoustic window, that showed a normal biventricular systolic function and a significant mitral regurgitation with an eccentric jet of unclear mechanism [].
For a better morphological definition and quantification of mitral regurgitation, in a patient candidate for a cardiac surgery, we performed a transesophageal echocardiography (TEE). This examination was inconclusive because of the lack of adequate visualization of the cardiac structures (only the descending thoracic aorta could be well seen).
Thus, to better quantify the degree of mitral regurgitation and for a further diagnostic investigation in order to clarify the inadequate TEE window, we decided to perform a CMR. Using phase-contrast flow sequences [], we documented a severe functional mitral regurgitation (effective regurgitant orifice [ERO] 0.36 cm2, regurgitant volume 32 ml), as a result of tethering of the valve leaflets in the presence of a scar in the basal part of the posterior wall []. In addition, in HASTE and VIBES sequence images, we documented a giant hiatus hernia with gastric sliding into the thorax []. Other additional findings were an azygos lobe in the right lung and multiple renal cysts (in particular a voluminous one in the upper pole of the right kidney) [].
After the results of CMR, the initial surgical strategy changed and the patient underwent a combined intervention of coronary artery bypass grafting and mitral valve annuloplasty. Therefore, these results helped the surgeon