A 48-year-old man with a medical history of smoking and significant bowel resection 2 years previously presented to the emergency department complaining of intense headache and abdominal pain that had started 2 days earlier. He also reported dyspnoea, generalized oedema, asthenia and a decrease in urinary output in the last week. He did not describe fever or other neurological, respiratory, digestive or genitourinary symptoms. He worked as a hairdresser and denied allergies, exposure to new substances, drugs, ticks, animals or recent travels.
He had been submitted to extensive small and large bowel partial resection 2 years previously, which had resulted in post-surgical short bowel syndrome and a colostomy. At that time, he had presented with non-specific abdominal pain, hypotension, elevated plasma lactate levels, an elevated haematocrit consistent with haemoconcentration, and metabolic acidosis. Plasma creatine phosphokinase levels were normal. After abdominal CT arteriography had excluded several causes of shock including arterial occlusion and venous thrombosis, intensive haemodynamic support and monitoring was provided. Emergent abdominal exploration and bowel resection was then carried out. The diagnostic approach included exclusion of several causes of end-organ damage including cardiovascular disease, sepsis and drugs. Non-occlusive mesenteric ischaemia was identified as the most likely cause.
The patient required two more surgeries for partial bowel resection. Post-surgery care was complicated by catheter-related superior vena cava thrombosis associated with the implantation of a vascular access system for parenteral nutrition, which resulted in the patient needing 3 months of hypocoagulation.
The patient also reported three previous hospitalizations for oliguric acute renal injury before his bowel surgery. In the first episode, 3 years previously, he presented with hypovolaemic shock and metabolic acidaemia requiring intensive care unit (ICU) admission for ionotropic support, renal replacement treatment and broad spectrum empiric antibiotics as the primary cause remained unknown. The episodes were all preceded by a 2-day prodrome of intense headache and diffuse abdominal discomfort associated with physical exercise and heat exposure.