A 35-year-old right-handed woman was referred to our clinic for acute aphasia during a conversation. Aphasia was with sudden onset, lasted 30 min and was followed firstly by progressive right hemibody paraesthesia with cheiro-oral predominance. Then, after complete resolution of the sensory symptoms, she experienced seeing shimmering zigzag lines which gradually increased in her right visual field. Sensory and visual symptoms, gradually settled in a few minutes (about 10 min) and resolved successively after several hours. A typical migraine headache, identical to the patient's usual ones followed, within one hour, the end of these new phenomena. The patient had suffered from regular typical migraine with visual auras since her childhood but she had not experienced other types of auras before. Indeed, she never complained of any sensory nor language disorder during her previous migraine attacks. The presence of language disorders and sensory symptoms was totally new, and unusual for her. In addition, she did not experience any loss of consciousness nor abnormal movements during this episode. The patient was previously healthy but had vascular risk factors (smoking and obesity), and was taking combined oral contraceptive pill. She had no family history of migraine with or without an aura, or history of hemiplegic migraine and she was not taking any medication before except nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs for the acute treatment of her migraine attacks.
A non-contrast CT of her brain and CT angiography of the supra-aortic and intracranial arteries were unremarkable. A perfusion CT performed 90 min after onset of the neurological symptoms showed a large area of hypoperfusion (increased mean transit time), in the left temporo-occipital region not restricted to a single vascular territory, without significant cerebral blood volume changes [Figures -]. An electroencephalogram performed during the sensory and visual symptoms was normal, ruling out the possibility of a partial seizure from the left temporo occipital region. An arterial spin labelling sequence (ASL) brain MRI undertaken