A 34-year-old right-hand–dominant woman presented to the Christchurch Hospital acute orthopaedic outpatient clinic 1 day after an injury to her right upper arm while playing rugby league. She was preparing to tackle an opponent, when her opponent's head struck her right anterior axilla and upper arm, causing immediate pain in that region. She also developed paresthesia affecting the lateral forearm, which spontaneously resolved soon after. She tried to continue playing, but her right arm was painful, and she was unable to tackle or pass normally, so she voluntarily left the field of play. The next morning she noted ecchymosis over her anteromedial right arm, associated with ongoing pain, so presented for further assessment.
She had previously sustained a right shoulder injury in Switzerland when she fell off a mountain bike approximately 5 years earlier and a traumatic anteroinferior shoulder dislocation when she fell playing rugby 6 months later. She underwent arthroscopic Bankart repair through anterior, lateral, and posterior arthroscopy portals. She reported a full recovery, with no pain or functional limitation before this injury. She takes no regular medications and denied steroid use. She works in a sedentary job. She has two children aged 3 years and 18 months. She smokes casually up to three cigarettes a day. She does not drink alcohol or use recreational drugs. She had recently started cross fit exercise classes but had not performed any chest press exercise.
On examination, there was ecchymosis of the anteromedial right arm. There was loss of pectoralis major muscle contour over the right anterior chest wall, with loss of anterior axillary fold definition (Figure ). There was tenderness over the site of the humeral insertion of the pectoralis major tendon. Shoulder adduction against resistance was painful. There was no associated rotator cuff muscle weakness, and neurovascular examination of the right upper limb was normal. MRI confirmed rupture of the humeral insertion of the pectoralis major tendon with