A 47-year-old man was hospitalized for recurrent dizziness for > 6 months in January 2018. In addition to dizziness, he was prone to fatigue and dozing off. The symptoms of dizziness were similar each time. After rest, his dizziness would improve, without hemiplegia, vagueness of speech, double vision, fever, or headache. The patient had a normal diet, slept for more than 10 hours a day, and had normal urine and stool. He had a history of cerebral infarction 8 years previously and facial neuritis 9 years previously, without obvious residual symptoms. The patient denied a history of exposure to toxic radioactive substances and a history of alcohol or drug addiction. He had smoked 20 cigarettes a day for more than 20 years. A physical examination showed that his blood pressure was 132/99 mmHg. He had a normal mental status, clear speech, no obvious abnormalities in cranial nerve function, and a soft neck. His muscle strength and tension and tendon reflexes were normal, and pyramidal signs were negative. No obvious abnormality was detected in a cardiopulmonary examination. The results of routine stool, blood, and urine tests after admission were normal. The results of liver function and renal function tests, and levels of iron, C-reactive protein, thyrotropin, blood glucose, D-dimer, glycosylated hemoglobin, and blood lipids were also normal. Results of tests for autoimmune vasculitis antibodies, antinuclear antibodies, and blood gas analysis were normal. The homocysteine level was 31 µmol/L and the prothrombin activity was 77%. Thromboelastography, electrocardiography, chest radiography, color Doppler ultrasonography of the abdomen, and 24-hour ambulatory electrocardiography also showed no obvious abnormalities.
Color Doppler ultrasonography of the carotid artery showed bilateral carotid atherosclerosis and the right vertebral artery was thin. Brain magnetic resonance imaging and brain magnetic resonance angiography showed a small left thalamic infarction (obsolete lesion). Transesophageal echocardiography and contrast-enhanced ultrasonography showed a moderate PFO with a severe right-to-