We present the case of a 48-year-old woman with a known cerebral cavernomatosis combined with epilepsy. It is known that her mother was diagnosed with cerebral cavernous malformation as an incidental finding in a cranial MR imaging, yet our patient refused genetic testing. She suffers from multiple cerebral cavernous malformations (more than 15) and underwent microsurgical removal of symptomatic lesions four times in the course of the last 18 years. Three of these were located in the left hemisphere, the fourth one had provoked a left-sided cerebellar hemorrhage 12 years ago. A hysterectomy for hypermenorrhagia was performed 4 years ago. The patient receives levothyroxine substitution and lamotrigine. Although advised otherwise, she continues to smoke cigarettes.
In follow-up cranial MR imaging, a cavernous malformation located in the right lateral ventricle had occurred about two years ago and demonstrated not only an increasing size but also microbleeding (, upper row). The proposition was made to remove this lesion endoscopically via a frontal burr hole guided by neuronavigation to spare the patient a fifth trepanation.
The patient remained reluctant and, only after a further 6-month MRI control depicting a still increasing size of the intraventricular cavernoma, finally consented to the neurosurgical intervention. The operation and postoperative period were uneventful. Histologic examination showed an atypical dilatated blood vessel with signs of recurrent hemorrhage, in the given clinical context compatible with parts of a cavernous hemangioma. Postoperative MR imaging demonstrated a complete resection (, lower row). The patient could be discharged 4 days after surgery. Neurologic examination revealed right-sided sensibility loss and gait disturbances as sequelae of the former four neurosurgical interventions. The symptoms remained unchanged after the endoscopy, without the occurrence of further deficits or an epileptic seizure. Postsurgery wound pain relieved quickly. Noteworthily, neither the de novo occurrence of the cavernous malformation nor the microbleeding caused any new neurological symptoms.
Total operation time was 2 hrs 18 mins including the positioning of the