A 35-year-old male patient presented to the accident and emergency department with worsening central chest pain for 1 day. He experienced chest pain that was not related to exertion for 1 month, associated with night sweats. There was no history of fever, palpitations, or weight loss. He was a chronic smoker and had a history of childhood asthma. On admission, the patient was in respiratory distress, however, was hemodynamically stable.
The initial chest radiograph [] revealed a large soft-tissue opacity over the medial aspect of the left upper zone. In view of the clinical possibility of acute aortic dissection, urgent computed tomography (CT) angiography was performed. CT showed no evidence of dissection or an aneurysm in the thoracic aorta. There was, however, a lobulated heterogeneously enhancing soft-tissue mass seen in the anterior mediastinum, partially encasing the aortic arch, almost completely encasing the left common carotid artery and fully encasing the left subclavian artery []. No calcifications or fat densities were noted within the mass. The mass displaced the left upper lobe pulmonary artery laterally. No thrombus was seen within the pulmonary artery. This mass also displaced the trachea and esophagus to the right [ and ]. Blood tests including tumor markers were all unremarkable. Radiological differential diagnoses of anterior mediastinal mass including lymphoma, germ cell tumor, and invasive thymoma were made. Subsequently, an 18 F-fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) positron emission tomography (PET)/CT scan was performed, showing the anterior mediastinal mass to be hypermetabolic with maximum standardized uptake values measuring 19.8 []. A hypermetabolic left cervical lymph node metastasis was also detected [].
The mediastinal tumor was considered unresectable since it encased the aorta and its branches. The patient underwent video-assisted thoracoscopic surgery and biopsy of the mediastinal mass was taken. Histopathological examination [] revealed sheets of tumor cells composed of large, eccentric nuclei with abundant eosinophilic cytoplasmic inclusion. The evidence of tumor necrosis was noted. On immunohistochemistry, the tumor