A 55-year-old gentleman, presented with complaints of pain over the left knee joint and inability to weight bear over his left leg for the past ten 10 months. The patient was apparently normal ten10 months ago, when he had a history of slip and fall from 10 feet height at his workplace in the month of January 2017 and sustained close injury to his left knee. The patient developed pain and inability to weight bear over his left leg. The patient initially underwent native splinting for 6 months following the injury. As patient was not relieved of his symptoms following native splinting, patient came to Sri Ramachandra Medical College Porur for further management With complaints of pain, deformity, and unable to bear weight on left leg (). There is no history of fever, loss of appetite or any other bone injury. The patient is not a known case of diabetic mellitus, Hypertension hypertension cardiac disease tuberculosis asthma epilepsy. The patient is not a smoker or an alcoholic. Examination revealed left lower limb appears to be shorter than the right lower limb. Muscle wasting was noted over the thigh and calf region. Healed abrasion scar present over the anterior aspect of the knee joint and the distal aspect of the leg. Dilated veins present over the posterolateral and the medial aspect of the knee joint. No popliteal fossa fullness was noted. Tenderness present over medial and lateral jointline Swelling present over the anterior aspect of knee joint. Bony mass is palpable over the anteromedial and lateral aspect of the knee. Broadening and thickening present over the anterior, medial, and lateral aspect of the knee joint. Abnormal mobility was noted. The Range range of Movement movement of the knee was 20 to –70°° with fixed flexion deformity of 20°. Further movements were painful. There was no neurovascular deficit noted. Radiographs showed comminuted malunited proximal tibia with depression over the medial condyle 1-2 cm and fracture line extending to the lateral and