An 80-year-old Indian lady presented with loss of weight of 5 kg over 4 months with loss of appetite. There was no history of jaundice or abdominal pain. She has a past medical history of a benign thyroid lesion treated with right hemi-thyroidectomy as well as cholecystitis treated by open cholecystectomy more than 10 years ago. She also had ischemic heart disease, diabetes mellitus and hyperlipidemia; all medically controlled. Physical examination was unremarkable. Liver function test, coagulation screen, renal function test, thyroid function test, alpha-fetoprotein, carcinoembryonic antigen and carbohydrate antigen 19-9 were normal. She had colonoscopy and gastroscopy performed one year ago to evaluate anemia and they revealed findings suggestive of hyperplastic rectal polyps and chronic gastritis respectively. Her current haemoglobin level was 10.2 g/dl. Computed Tomography (CT) scan of the abdomen and pelvis demonstrated a 7.8×6.4×6.2 cm mass closely abutting the inferior vena cava with no intervening fat plane and within the gallbladder bed (). The mass shows internal calcification and compresses the common bile duct causing proximal biliary dilatation. Mass was separate from liver and head of pancreas and abuts second part of duodenum. Staging CT scan of thorax was normal. Multi-disciplinary tumour board recommended surgical resection for this indeterminate solid tumour.
Intraoperatively, the findings were that of an encapsulated and lobulated mass displacing the common bile duct anteriorly and portal vein medially. The mass was not arising from the duodenum, stomach or pancreas. Trucut biopsy of the mass was sent for frozen section and it revealed a spindle cell lesion. During dissection it appeared that mass was adherent to inferior vena cava and this needed en bloc resection of anterolateral wall of inferior vena cava. Inadvertent tear of the remnant cystic duct encountered due to adhesions resulting from prior cholecystectomy and this was repaired. Post-operatively, patient was transfused one pint of packed red blood cells and discharged on day seven with no complications.
The