A 76-year-old Brazilian male was admitted to the emergency room complaining of two-weeks epigastric abdominal pain, sporadic fever and weight loss accompanied by nausea and vomiting. The patient had a history of type II insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus, chronic hypertension and non-dialytic chronic renal failure. He denied alcohol or smoking abuse. Two months ago, he was hospitalized with the diagnosis of hepatic and splenic abscesses with blood culture positive to Staphylococcus aureus. On physical examination the patient was eutrophic and looking well. He was afebrile, pulse rate = 92 beats per minute, blood pressure = 150/80 mmHg and slight edema was palpable on lower limbs. Pulmonary examination showed rales on both lung bases. Abdominal examination revealed a generalized tenderness more pronounced on the epigastrium and left upper quadrant. The liver was palpable up to 4 cm below the right costal margin. Heart examination was unremarkable.
The results of laboratory tests on admission are summarized in , showing pancytopenia with slight elevation of amylase and lipase.
Abdominal ultrasonography ruled out the presence of hepatic abscess. The gallbladder wall was thick and micro calculi were evidenced in its interior. The pancreas was diffusely enlarged showing a heterogeneous texture compatible with an acute inflammatory process. A peripancreatic hyper echogenic tissue, which extended diffusely through the retro peritoneum, was also evidenced. This examination was complemented by a total abdominal and pelvic computed tomography (CT), which revealed a diffuse enlargement of the pancreas surrounded by a solid infiltrative tissue, extensive to the splenic, hepatic hilum as well as to the retro peritoneum, which was interpreted as being of inflammatory nature. The presence of a considerable amount of peritoneal fluid also was noted ( and ). Considering the clinical and radiological findings, treatment for acute pancreatitis was undertaken.
As no clinical improvement was achieved after four days of appropriate treatment, the patient was submitted to a paracenthesis. The cytological analysis of the peritoneal fluid showed suspicious cells for malignancy along with a high number of