A 25-year-old female patient sought medical attention complaining of a three-month history of weight loss, intermittent fever, nonproductive cough, thoracic pain, abdominal pain and increased abdominal girth, nausea and vomiting. She presented syncope on the day she was admitted in the hospital. Symptoms had begun two weeks after her third deliver. Her past obstetrics history comprised three gestations without pre natal care all of them were uneventful. She denied any other comorbidity, allergy, smoking, alcoholism, prior blood transfusion or similar cases in her family. She lived in a Brazil’s northeastern state that is well known for high prevalence of schistosomiasis. Physical examination demonstrated tachycardia with pulse rate of 100 beats per minute, blood pressure of 90 × 60 mmHg, tachypnea with 25 respiratory movements per minute, temperature 37 °C, oxygen saturation of 96% at room air. Cardiac and pulmonary examinations were unremarkable while the abdominal exam showed signals of small ascites. Gynecological examination ruled out any abnormality and the transvaginal ultrasound was normal except for a presence of a small myoma. The initial laboratory tests are shown in .
The multi detector computed tomography (CT) of thorax and abdomen are shown in -.
The patient progressed, on the day after admission, with worsening of the abdominal pain, nausea and vomiting and respiratory distress. Besides the stability of hemodynamic parameters, the cutaneous perfusion got worse and serum lactate level rose.
shows the liver enzymes and prothrombine time evolution. She was referred to the Intensive Care Unit because of her clinical instability and respiratory insufficiency, where she presented cardiac arrest after vomiting and probable aspiration of gastric content.
Serologies for HIV and Hepatitis virus B and C were negative.
An autopsy was performed.
The abdominal and thoracic cavities were opened, revealing a mild serous ascites and bowel distension. The visceral peritoneum showed a whitish diffuse thickening throughout the gastrointestinal tract from the stomach to the colon. ().
The longitudinal sectioning of the small and