A 64-year-old male with a 92-pack/year smoking history was admitted to the emergency department of the institution with sudden shortness of breath. Chest X-ray and computed tomography on admission revealed the presence of massive left pleural effusion and a large tumor (diameter: 13 cm) occupying the patient’s left thoracic cavity (). Pleural effusion cytology and a bronchofiberscopic study failed to show any evidence of disease. Under local anesthesia, percutaneous needle biopsy performed through the left thoracic wall revealed the presence of a sarcomatous lesion (Fig. ) and positive immunohistochemical staining for CD56 and desmin. Based on these findings, the diagnosis of MTT was considered. There was no evidence of distant metastases.
The patient underwent surgical removal of the tumor approximately 1 month after admission to the hospital. Conventional thoracotomy was performed at the left fifth left intercostal space, with the patient in the right decubitus position. The tumor occupying the left hemithorax was gelatinous soft and had arisen from the anterior thoracic wall around the second left intercostal space. Moreover, numerous pleural disseminated nodules were identified throughout the left thoracic cavity. A subtotal tumor resection with extrapleural pneumonectomy (without diaphragmatic pleura) was performed due to the invasion of the tumor into the left lung. Broad chest wall removal was deemed excessively aggressive. Thus, the tumor of the anterior chest wall was not removed, and postsurgical radiotherapy was planned. Following tumor removal, the left thoracic cavity was irrigated with distilled water containing cisplatin (100 mg in total). The total operation time was 280 minutes, and the total bleeding volume was approximately 1640 ml.
Macroscopically, the resected tumor was 14 × 8.5 cm in size, solid and gelatinous soft with broad necrosis. Moreover, it had widely invaded the subpleural fat tissue and left upper lobe parenchyma (Fig. ). Microscopically, short spindle tumor cells embedded in the myxoid stroma showed patternless proliferation,