A 73-year-old woman presents to the emergency department, showing symptoms of trismus leading to sudden respiratory distress and an episode of cyanosis. Anamnestic symptoms of trismus had shown up 3 days before hospitalization. Initially there had been no subjective signs of respiratory failure. The patient has no relevant history. Her chronic medication consisted of macrogol, escitalopram, mometasone, indapamide, and lorazepam. There was no notion of any use of antipsychotic or antiemetic agents. The patient's vaccination history was unknown. She did not recall any vaccination in the past 10 years. There was no history of alcohol, nicotine, or drug abuse. The patient was socially active and a recreative gardener.
On arrival of the medical team, there was no safe airway. After a Mayo tube had been placed, oxygen saturation stabilized rapidly. Neurological examination reveals trismus and mild rigidity of the neck muscles. The patient was alert. Her motor function, sensibility, and reflexes were normal. General physical examination did not reveal any abnormalities, except for small wounds in the oral mucosa due to an ill-fitting dental prosthesis. Also, the lab tests as well as brain and neck CT were all normal. CSV analysis showed normal biochemistry and cultures remained sterile.
Treatment for tetanus was started, including antibodies, vaccinations, and metronidazole. During the initial 12 h of hospitalization the patient's condition remained stable with persistent trismus (mouth opening limited to a few millimeters). Twenty-four hours after hospitalization, the patient has a sudden respiratory collapse with a hypoxic cardiac arrest of 2 min. After sedation had been stopped, the initial evaluation showed persistent trismus with need of ventilation. Further clinical evaluation, however, was unchanged compared with her general condition before cardiac arrest. In the following days there was a deterioration with the development of non-stimulus-induced myoclonus in all limbs. EEG did not show an epileptic correlate but revealed slowed background waves. The