A 32-year-old Caucasian woman presented to an outside orthopaedic spine surgeon at 31 weeks of pregnancy because of a right leg pain and difficulty walking. The patient reported that the pain had come on gradually and it had caused her to go from walking independently to requiring the use of a cane and to eventually a walker. The patient underwent an MRI of the lumbar spine 1 month prior to delivery because of concerns that her pain and weakness were radicular in nature. A limited MRI of the lumbar spine, with only sagittal and axial reconstruction and without extension to the pelvis or hips, showed a mild disk bulge at L3-4 and L4-5. She was prescribed a Medrol Dosepak for a herniated disk and right lower extremity radiculopathy.
The patient continued to experience pain and difficulty ambulating. She presented to the obstetric service at 38 weeks with elevated blood pressure and headaches, and was admitted to labor and delivery for induction of labor. After 16 hours of labor, the decision was made to perform a cesarean section because of concerns for worsening of the right lower extremity radiculopathy and suspected fetal macrosomia, complicated by intrapartum hemorrhage. After her cesarean and delivery, the patient experienced increased severe pain in her right hip and was unable to ambulate. The obstetrics and gynecology team first consulted the neurology service, and an MRI of the pelvis was recommended to evaluate for possible compressive femoral nerve neuropathy. The neurology team also started her on a low dose of prednisone. On the pelvic MRI, she was found to have a displaced right femoral neck fracture with signs of femoral head bone marrow edema and a focal area of bone edema in the left femoral head with mild flattening of the femoral head (Figure ). The radiologist described the areas of edema in both hips as possible ON. At this point, the orthopaedic service was consulted and a pelvic radiograph was obtained (Figure ).
The patient had no known history of trauma or falls during her pregnancy.