A 74-year-old, right-handed, male smoker was taken to an outside hospital after he became confused at a gas station. This episode was preceded by 1 month of cognitive decline, personality changes, and urinary incontinence, as well as self- reported clear rhinorrhea while eating. His neurologic exam was notable for a flat affect and a relative paucity of speech.
A head computed tomography (CT) was obtained and demonstrated a large, hyperdense left frontal extra- axial mass along the floor of the anterior cranial fossa, with bony erosion into the frontal sinus []. A subsequent magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) revealed a 7.0 cm×5.0 cm×4.9 cm heterogeneously enhancing mass with intrinsic T1 shortening, suggestive of prior hemorrhage, and subacute blood products posterior to the tumor margin, abutting the frontal horn of the left lateral ventricle. T1 postcontrast imaging revealed a dural tail and T2-weighted images demonstrated a partial cerebrospinal fluid cleft around the periphery of the lesion; both findings suggested that the mass was extra-axial in origin []. Given the aggressive appearance of the lesion and the patient’s smoking history, there was a concern that the lesion was a dural-based metastasis from an unknown primary. Therefore, a metastatic workup was completed, including a contrasted CT of the chest, abdomen, and pelvis. The CT scans revealed multiple small, hypodense liver lesions concerning for metastases [] as well as pulmonary emboli.
An inferior vena cava filter was placed, and the patient was subsequently taken to the operating room for resection of the intracranial tumor. A two-piece bifrontal craniotomy was performed since the tumor was noted to invade both the frontal sinus and the superior sagittal sinus on the preoperative imaging. The lesion was of mixed consistency, with both firm and soft components. There was significant hypervascularity, which was controlled with bipolar electrocautery. The involved portions of the superior sagittal sinus and frontal sinus were removed. The