A 29-year-old woman (gravida 3, para 2, live 2), with a history of two previous cesarean sections (both were lower segment CS), was admitted to Ghaem University Teaching Hospital (Mashhad, Iran) in November 2017. She complained of moderate abdominal pain and vaginal bleeding during the previous 10 days. Her last menstruation was about 15 weeks prior to admission. Due to the history of an irregular menstrual cycle and lack of financial means, the patient was unable to seek proper medical consultation. She only took a urine pregnancy test. Two days prior to admission, she underwent a sonogram and the report revealed a 24 mm endometrial lining and an 82×37 mm heterogeneous mass in the left adnexa, probably associated with a perforated gestational sac. An 8 cm long dead fetus corresponding to 14 weeks of gestational age, laterally positioned at the side of the heterogeneous mass was reported. The previous two pregnancies were uneventful. There was no history of either curettage or intrauterine device insertion. In addition, she had no history of drug use, abdominal trauma, or smoking.
On general examination, the patient was in good condition and was not pale. Physical examination revealed moderate tenderness in the lower abdomen, especially in the left lower quadrant. There was no rebound tenderness. Her vital signs (blood pressure and pulse rate) were normal. On speculum examination, mild vaginal bleeding was observed. Her primary hemoglobin level was 11.8 gr/dl. A second ultrasound assessment revealed a 96×52 mm heterogeneous mass and a fetus without a heartbeat, 13 weeks of gestational age, positioned in the left lateral paracolic gutter of the abdominal cavity (). With an initial impression of abdominal ectopic pregnancy, laparotomy was performed. After opening the fascia, about 100 cc of hemoperitoneum was suctioned. The patient was about 12 weeks pregnant and placental tissue was present with multiple organized blood clots surrounding the lower segment of the anterior wall of the uterus and bladder. After removal of the placental tissue