A 59-year-old woman with a history of non-ischemic dilated cardiomyopathy was referred to our facility for further investigation of an unprovoked PE beginning 2 years prior. A small filling defect diagnosed as PE was reported within the RLL pulmonary artery on CTA imaging 2 years before presentation at our institution []. Her only symptom at the time of diagnosis was dyspnea. Outside testing for thrombophilia was unrevealing. She was treated with anticoagulation for 6 months following the diagnosis of PE on CTA. She denied smoking, hemoptysis, headache, gastrointestinal bleeding, history of stroke or cancer, chest trauma, recent surgery, chronic lung infections, or long-distance travel. Vital signs, physical examination, and laboratory results were unremarkable. The patient presented at our institution 2 years following original diagnosis of PE. CTA at our facility was less convincing in demonstrating RLL pulmonary artery filling defect; however, hypertrophied arteries in the right lung base [] and upper abdomen [] were identified. The hypertrophied arterial structure in the right lung base was present on the CTA from 2 years prior. Our current CTA interpretation described no evidence for PE but suggested the possibility of a pulmonary arteriovenous malformation. In fact, careful retrospective evaluation of the CTA from our facility reveals the fact that hypertrophied arteries are present in both the thorax and the abdomen. This combination is highly suggestive of SA-PAF instead of a simple pulmonary arteriovenous malformation limited to the thorax. Regardless, conventional angiography is indicated and definitive for either diagnosis on CTA.
The patient underwent conventional angiography for further investigation. Abdominal aortogram demonstrated a hypertrophied artery originating from the right renal artery communicating with RLL pulmonary artery. The right renal angiography confirmed a hypertrophied right inferior phrenic artery []. Selective arteriogram of the right inferior phrenic artery confirmed flow to the inferior RLL pulmonary artery [].
Pulmonary angiography did not demonstrate a PE or pulmonary arteriovenous malformation; however, competitive inflow was seen within the inferior RLL pulmonary artery