A 40-year-old female presented to the ED with past medical history of non-ST elevation myocardial infarction (NSTEMI) from proposed coronary artery disease, hypertension, hypothyroidism, anxiety, depression, asthma, and tobacco use. The patient reported chest pain that started at rest and was associated with shortness of breath and radiation to the jaw and left arm. Although previously effective, nitroglycerin tablets did not relieve her pain, which prompted her to call emergency medical services (EMS). EMS administered 324 milligrams of aspirin and three nitroglycerin tablets to the patient. Upon EMS presentation to the ED, she became unresponsive and was noted to be pulseless. Cardiopulmonary resuscitation was initiated, with a heart rhythm of ventricular fibrillation. The patient was successfully defibrillated and had return of spontaneous circulation (ROSC). An electrocardiogram (ECG) () immediately post ROSC showed ST elevations in anterolateral and inferior leads.
The patient was taken emergently to the cardiac catheterization laboratory. The cardiac catheterization revealed the following: The left anterior descending artery (LAD) was without atherosclerotic disease; the LAD supplied the apex as well as inferior wall of the heart; and the proximal LAD was normal and large, while the mid and distal LAD were in diffuse spasm ().
The spasm was not present on the patient’s previous cardiac catheterization. The spasm did not respond to intracardiac nitroglycerin. The ejection fraction was reduced to 35%. Post catheterization the patient was started on a diltiazem infusion, and cardiac enzymes began trending down. Trans-thoracic echo two days later reflected a left ventricular ejection fraction of 45–49% with a moderate-sized apical wall motion abnormality with akinesis of the segments. She remained stable and was maintained on diltiazem in an attempt to prevent reoccurrence of the coronary vasospasm. She was fitted with a wearable defibrillator and discharged four days after arrival to the ED. Against cardiologist recommendation, the patient chose not to pursue an implantable cardiac defibrillator (ICD).
The