A 74-year-old woman was admitted to our hospital for elective left knee replacement for osteoarthritis. Patient had chronic left knee pain for the prior 10 years. She had been diagnosed with osteoarthritis based on the X-ray of the knee. Initially, the pain was managed with non-steroidal anti-inflammatory medications. However, over the course of past 1 year, the pain had worsened and was interfering with her daily activities. She denied any fever, chills, numbness, tingling or pain in other joints. She denied weight loss, night sweats or new lumps.
She had past medical history of hypertension and bilateral knee osteoarthritis. She had past surgical history of right knee replacement with no complications 6 months prior to this admission. She was a former smoker with history of 3 - 4 cigarettes for 20 years. She denied any alcohol or recreational drug use. Her family history included gastric cancer in the mother who died at unknown age.
Vitals were within normal range. Physical examination was normal except of left knee which revealed moderate effusion and tenderness to palpation of medial and lateral joint space. There was no erythema or warmth noted. Range of motion was mildly restricted.
X-ray of left knee showed marked degenerative changes with diffuse joint space narrowing of the medial and lateral compartments with subchondral cystic changes and degenerative spurring suggestive of moderate osteoarthritis.
With informed consent from the patient, the orthopedic surgeon proceeded with left total knee replacement. Intraoperatively, markedly hypertrophic synovium and areas of fibrotic tissue was noted. A large effusion was present which was clear. The fluid was sent for culture. Also, synovium and intra-articular tissue biopsies were taken and sent for culture. Aerobic, anaerobic, acid fast bacilli stain and fungal culture was negative. The patient tolerated the procedure well. She was discharged on day 3 postoperatively.
Ten weeks after the first procedure, the patient followed up with orthopedics for persistent left knee pain, swelling and