A 69-year-old female presented to the general surgical outpatients department on referral from her general practitioner for elective excision of a rapidly growing lesion on her central chest. The lesions had been present for 2 months duration and had increased in size, as well as elevation. They were approximately 5 × 5 × 5 cm and 3 × 3 × 3 cm in size and polypoid in nature, appearing well-circumscribed with a red-purple discoloration, and both had a central depression with ulceration (). The patient was a lifelong smoker (45 pack-year history).
She presented to the operating theatre for excision with incidental dyspnoea and coryzal symptoms, and a pre-operative chest X-ray was arranged before any anaesthetic was administered, revealing a right upper lobe pulmonary mass partly obscured by the clavicle. She underwent excision of the cutaneous lesions, and respiratory physicians were consulted (). Urgent computed tomography (CT) chest was arranged, which revealed the diagnosis of lung malignancy, with a spiculating right apical mass measuring 48 × 30 × 29 mm, extending to the mediastinal pleura and in proximity to the oesophagus and posterolateral trachea with obliteration of the fat planes. There was also local hilar and paratracheal lymphadenopathy, measuring 30 × 29 × 20 mm in the right superior hilar region, 21 × 24 × 13 mm in the right inferolateral hilar region and a 36 × 14 mm pretracheal node ( and ). There were also background mild centrilobular emphysematous changes. There was no metastatic abdominal or pelvic disease.
She was referred for urgent respiratory review and discussed at the respiratory Multidisciplinary team (MDT) meeting at a regional referral centre, where staging CT brain revealed six cerebral metastases with two large regions of vasogenic oedema. The metastases were bilateral, but more marked on the right, with the largest lesion in the anteroinferior right frontal lobe producing mass effect on the right lateral ventricle frontal horn and midline shift