Three years ago, A 56-year-old Asian man presented to our clinic with debilitating dysphagia involving solids for several months. The patient had a heavy smoking history (3 packs/day, 30 years), but no alcohol drinking history. He had uncontrolled diabetes mellitus over 10 years, and underwent coronary artery bypass graft surgery 8 years previously.
The patient had previously visited a local clinic with heartburn and dysphagia, where he underwent esophagogastroduodenoscopy (EGD) without a biopsy. EGD revealed esophageal stricture and mucosal abrasion. When initially referred to our clinic, provisional diagnosis included gastroesophageal reflux disease, thus, proton pump inhibitor therapy began at first visit. We planned further evaluations like computed tomography (CT), barium swallow, esophageal manometry, and endoscopic biopsy, but he constantly refused admission or further evaluations and was lost to follow-up for 18 months because of his poor economic status.
As time went by, his dysphagia became aggravated and was associated with weight loss. He revisited the clinic with a body weight loss of 7 kg (47 kg at visit; usual weight 54 kg) and dysphagia involving both solids and liquids; he could barely swallow a liquid diet and had difficulty even in swallowing pills.
Physical examination revealed no superficial lymph nodes. A blood test showed that complete blood cell counts, creatinine, and liver function tests were normal. EGD showed severe esophageal stricture at 32 cm from incisors and mucosal erosions with exudate (Fig. ). Biopsies were performed at erosions (only 2 pieces of tissue). Biopsy results showed necroinflammatory exudate. Barium swallow (Fig. ) showed stricture in the mid-to-distal esophagus and delayed contrast passage. CT scan (Fig. ) demonstrated an esophageal lesion, length about 70 mm, in the lower esophagus with marked luminal narrowing and wall thickening, without enlarged lymph nodes. An abdominopelvic CT scan of the pancreas was performed and showed normal.
Previous proton pump inhibitor therapy was not effective and