A 24-year-old male patient presented with a history of pain in the right knee for 2 years. He had a history of blunt injury by a gas cylinder over the inner aspect of the lower thigh about 2 years back. His pain started after this blunt injury, which was dull aching and occasionally increased in severity on exertion and walking long distance. However, he complained of increased pain for 1 month prior to his consultation in our clinic. He had a second episode of blunt trauma following which pain was present throughout the day which increased on walking even a short distance. He was unable to squat and sit on the floor due to pain. On clinical examination, he was found to have diffuse swelling on the medial aspect of the knee. It was tender to palpation [], and the margins of the swelling could not be demarcated clinically. Swelling turned prominent on flexion of the knee [Figure and ]. The skin over the swelling was normal. The patient was initially evaluated with X-rays and since the clinical diagnosis could not be made, the patient was further evaluated with magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), computed tomography (CT) scan, and ultrasonography (USG) screening. X-ray examination was unremarkable, and MRI was reported to have venolymphatic malformation over the medial femoral condyle with minimal extension into the medial femoral condyle and vastus medialis obliqus. All the other blood parameters such as erythrocyte sedimentation rate, C-reactive protein, and rheumatoid factors were within the normal limits. The patient was taken for diagnostic arthroscopy and excision biopsy. Through standard anteromedial and anterolateral portals, the knee joint was examined; there were no intraarticular bleeding tendencies until the lesion was probed. Multiple, small, dark maroon, grape-like multilobulated cystic tissue [Figure - and ] was identified in the medial gutter over the medial femoral condylar area and over the medial wall extending into the medial capsule and articular surface of the vastus