A 38-year-old woman was admitted to the emergency room for a clinical picture characterized by the episodes (duration 5–10 min) of atypical chest pain irradiating to the upper left limb. The patient reported previous cocaine and heroin abuse and current smoking of about 20 cigarettes per day. Body mass index of 31 was calculated. The electrocardiogram (ECG) showed normal ECG pattern, and the high-sensitivity troponin I resulted normal on several determinations.
Since 2006, the patient underwent serial echocardiographic examinations that revealed and confirmed alleged bicuspid aortic valve (BAV) with no aortic dilation and mild aortic regurgitation.
In her past clinical history, the patient reported noncomplicated peptic ulcer and chronic gastritis, lymphatic adenopathy of undetermined etiology, and recurrent episodes of anorexia/bulimia and panic attacks, treated with antidepressants – selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor, valproate, and diazepam. She reported two pregnancies: one child was diagnosed with right-sided aortic arch congenital anomaly and cleft palate and the other one was in good health status. Patient's father died from myocardial infarction at the age of 55, and her mother was affected by systemic hypertension.
At admission to our unit, the clinical examination revealed regular heartbeat and 2/6 levine diastolic murmur; blood pressure was 140/80 mmHg and SpO2 was 98% breathing room air. The ECG showed sinus rhythm, and no abnormal findings were detected: the ECG pattern was overall normal and ventricular repolarization was actually within the normal limits; no changes on ECG were detected when compared to previous ones performed in the emergency room.
A transthoracic echocardiography (TTE) was performed: biventricular systolic function was considered normal, ejection fraction was estimated 60%, no wall motion abnormalities were found, and left ventricular dimensions were within the normal limits; according to age and body surface area (LVIDd: 53 mm and LVEDV: 138 ml), the aortic root diameter was within the normal limits (24 mm) and no dilation of ascending aorta or aortic