An 82-year-old man (64.5 kg, 175 cm) diagnosed with falcine meningioma was admitted for craniotomy. The patient presented left-sided weakness. Comorbidities included atrial fibrillation and Parkinson's disease. He had undergone prostate surgery under spinal anesthesia 1 year previously. Preoperative thoracic radiographs revealed several small nodular opacities in the upper lobe of the right lung. Low-dose thoracic computed tomography (CT) was performed to further evaluate the possibility of pulmonary tuberculosis, which revealed fibro-atelectatic changes, bronchiectasis, calcifications, and small nodules, considered to be sequelae to resolved pulmonary tuberculosis. The patient presented no respiratory symptoms, and pulse oximetry readings were 100% in room air. He was a non-smoker. Tracheobronchomegaly was not detected on the preoperative thoracic radiograph as the image was not clear enough to distinguish the trachea. Therefore, the anesthesia plan was to manage the patient as if he had chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, in terms of his pulmonary condition.
After denitrogenation with 100% oxygen, anesthesia was induced via intravenous propofol and remifentanil infusion. After confirming the loss of consciousness and following sufficient manual ventilation, 50 mg of rocuronium was injected prior to intubation. A reinforced tracheal tube with an inner diameter of 7.5 mm was inserted and fixed at 23 cm from the incisors. An arterial catheter was placed in the left radial artery and central venous catheter in the right subclavian vein. Total intravenous anesthesia was maintained using a target-controlled infusion system.
After the completion of central venous catheterization, tidal volume was considered insufficient and breathing sounds were reduced on auscultation in both lung fields. The ventilator circuit was checked for respiratory leakage, and no leak was found. The patient was reintubated with a new tracheal tube in case of tube malfunction; however, lack of airway control consistent with air leakage persisted. The extubated tube was examined, and no malfunction was identified.
At this stage, an airway deformity