A 60-year old woman was admitted to the Department of Neurology, The First People’s Hospital of Zunyi and The Third Affiliated Hospital of Zunyi Medical University, Zunyi, Guizhou Province, China in September 2017 due to experiencing syncope for 1 year combined with dizziness for 1 day. Starting 1 year previously, the patient had experienced repeated episodes of sudden syncope after changing her position. She would fall to the ground, exhibit no response to others, and the episodes would last for a few seconds each time. She reported satisfactory consciousness, long-term constipation, occasional urinary incontinence, without limb convulsions, lip or tongue bites, heart palpitations, chest tightness or difficulty breathing, headache or vomiting, limb sensation or movement disorders. Physical therapy recommendations had been given to the patient such as lying in a prone position, ensuring the head and trunk were 15–20 degrees higher than the lower limbs, and wearing tight trousers as well as elastic socks to apply pressure to the legs. In March 2017, after 6 months of recurrent syncope, she spent 8 days in hospital and was diagnosed with transient ischaemic attack. She was discharged after treatment with nutritional neurotherapy, which improved circulation. The above-mentioned symptoms recurred again, exhibiting the same nature as in the previous event, with dizziness, discomfort, walking unsteadily, and no limb convulsions. So, in September 2017, after 1 year of syncope, she was admitted to hospital for 1 day and diagnosed with transient ischaemic attack. She had a healthy status, did not consume tobacco or alcohol and did not report any history of genetic diseases or similar diseases in her family. The physical examination undertaken at the time of hospital admission in September 2017 showed that her vital signs were in the normal range, and the heart, lung and abdomen were normal. With regard to her nervous system, she was conscious, speaking fluently and smoothly, with normal high-level nerve activity.