An 80-year-old man with history of grade 1 follicular lymphoma since 2013 with no indication for therapy being followed by oncology for clinical surveillance presented with worsening shortness of breath and hemoptysis. Physical exam was unremarkable, and lab workup showed chronic anemia. Computerized tomography (CT) imaging of the chest showed an enlarging 2.0 cm density in the posterior right upper lobe of lung (RUL) as well as scattered pulmonary nodules in the RUL. With his extensive history of smoking, he underwent bronchoscopy with endobronchial ultrasound-guided biopsy (EBUS) of mediastinal lymphadenopathy. Bronchoscopy revealed lung mass with endobronchial lesions and mediastinal lymphadenopathy. Although clinically on bronchoscopy it appeared to be cancer, biopsy was negative. He subsequently was sent to interventional radiology for biopsy of an RUL spiculated mass, which again was negative for cancer. Needle biopsy sections of lungs were suggestive of organizing pneumonia.
With clinically suspected cancer and two separate negative biopsies, we decided to proceed with positron emission tomography (PET) scan to reassess approaches for tissue biopsy. Meanwhile patient was started on antibiotics with which he had significant improvement clinically and his shortness of breath and mucus production got better. Patient had PET scan that showed extensive mediastinal lymphadenopathy throughout the right mediastinum and LA which could probably correspond to patient’s known lymphoma ( and ) as his biopsied right spiculated lung mass did not appear to be growing and had less impressive uptake. Patient was recommended to have repeat EBUS; however, he refused to undergo any further procedures or biopsies.
Three months later, patient underwent repeat chest CT with contrast that showed right hilar and mediastinal mass measuring 7 cm in size with involvement of right and left brachiocephalic veins, SVC and a large tumor thrombus in the LA (). He had transthoracic echocardiogram done that showed large left atrial mass 3.8 × 3.2 cm lying in the base of the LA extending into the main body of the LA ( and ). Patient eventually