A 56-year-old male patient presented to head and neck clinic with an ulcerative lesion in the right temporal area of the scalp since the last 3 years that gradually increased in size and associated with mild pain. He denied any history of other skin lesion or swelling in the neck. He has no history of smoking, alcohol consumption, or sun exposure. On physical examination, the lesion was an ulcerative measuring approximately 3 × 3 cm. There was no palpable cervical lymphadenopathy. No pre- or postauricular lymphadenopathy. No other suspicious skin lesions of the face or the neck were found. The rest of the examination was unremarkable. Head and neck computerized tomography (CT scan) did not show any evidence of pathologic lymph nodes or masses. Staging with CT scan of the chest, abdomen, and pelvis was also negative for metastatic disease. The patient underwent complete local excision and split-thickness skin graft. Histopathology assessment revealed skin tissue infiltrated by neoplastic growth composed of tubules, cords, and nests of malignant cells. The extensive perineural invasion was seen. There was no lymphovascular invasion. The resection margins were clear. The pathology confirmed an apocrine cutaneous carcinoma [see ]. The case was reviewed in the head and neck tumor board and the decision of no adjuvant treatment. 1.5 years later, the patient presented to the combined head and neck oncology clinic with right neck lymphadenopathy for the last few weeks. On physical examination, there was around 2 × 2 cm mass in the right posterior neck looks like a lymph node. CT scan of the head and neck revealed 1.8 × 1.5 cm right neck lymph node at the level Va with central necrosis [see ]. FNA biopsy was taken and histopathology reported malignant cells to consist with metastatic of cutaneous malignancy. The patient underwent right modified radical neck dissection and the histopathology reported the diagnosis of metastatic cutaneous apocrine carcinoma. The case again discussed in the tumor board and the plan was to give adjuvant radiation therapy. No chemotherapy was given