A 69-year-old male ex-smoker presented to the emergency department with acute-onset right-sided chest pain with dyspnoea. His past medical history included chronic obstructive pulmonary disease stadium-3, well controlled with medications. On presentation, his oxygen saturation was 93%. Physical examination of the patient showed no abnormalities. Laboratory findings showed a normal full blood count, normal venous blood gas and C-reactive protein levels, and no evidence of clotting disorders. Conventional chest radiography showed no abnormal shadows. The patient was admitted to our hospital for further management. On Day 2 of admission the patient’s general condition deteriorated. A computed tomography (CT) chest angiogram was performed which revealed a 5.7 × 4.2 × 5.0 cm mass in the right pulmonary artery; no enlarged lymph nodes or signs of metastasis were found ().
After discussion with several radiologists, a decision was made to manage the patient as a case of thromboembolism occlusion in the right pulmonary artery. He received appropriate anticoagulation therapy, but no improvement occurred. A follow-up CT chest angiogram was carried out 2 weeks later, which showed no improvement; however, a new finding of 1.5 cm pleural fluid in the right lung was discovered ().
A decision was made to proceed further with magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the chest which revealed increasing pleural fluid with intraluminal filling defects involving the right pulmonary artery, citing pulmonary thromboembolism as the main differential diagnosis (). A PET-CT scan was performed after a multidisciplinary conference, which revealed a large invasive obstructing homogenous mass in the right pulmonary artery with high fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) uptake of 25.2 SUV max, no FDG uptake in mediastinal lymph nodes or other organs; the differential diagnoses included pulmonary thromboembolism and an intrapulmonary artery tumour (). The patient underwent endoscopy-guided biopsy of the mass and histopathology was consistent with the diagnosis of non-small-cell carcinoma. The patient is currently receiving ongoing chemotherapy and radiotherapy.