A fit and well 25-year-old man presented to the emergency department with worsening abdominal pain and vomiting. His presentation was on a background of similar intermittent symptoms for the past 12 months. He had previously presented 10 days prior with similar symptoms and was discharged home after a period of observation and improvement in the emergency department; however, he re-presented with a severe episode of pain. He had an unremarkable medical and surgical history. He was a non-smoker and had no significant family history. On physical examination, he was normotensive and afebrile with a heart rate of 90 beats per minute. His abdomen was soft with a tender with a palpable left-sided mass.
Prior to this presentation, the patient had already had an ultrasound examination and routine biochemistry performed, both unremarkable. Computed tomography (CT) imaging was performed at the time of his second presentation which demonstrated a very large intussusception in the left side of his abdomen with proximal jejuno-jejunal involvement, marked enlargement of the intussuscipiens containing the intussusceptum and an enlarged peri-gastric node measuring 17 × 14 × 14mm at the gastric cardia. There were no imaging features suggestive of ischaemic bowel or intestinal lipomatosis (see and ).
The patient was admitted to the hospital and optimised for surgery with intravenous fluid resuscitation and intravenous antibiotics. A midline laparotomy was performed 6 hours after his presentation to the emergency department. Intraoperative findings included an intussusception over 1 metre with the lead point of the intussusception approximately 10 cm from duodenal jejunal flexure. Multiple pathological masses with focal areas of necrosis were present in the wall of small bowel and within the mesentery (see and ). The intussusception was not reduced as malignancy had not been excluded. The intussusception was resected, and a side-to-side functional end-to-end two-layered hand sewn anastomosis was performed.
The resected histology specimen demonstrated numerous polypoid submucosal lipomas and subser