A 20-year-old smoker male experienced mild weakness and paresthesia of lower extremities for 3 days. There was no underlying diseases or history of trauma. He went to the clinic and took home some medicine. Three days later, the patient developed dyspnea, generalized seizures, and subsequent loss of consciousness. He was sent to the emergency department of the local hospital and intubated promptly. A few minutes later, the patient had a cardiac arrest. Immediate cardiopulmonary resuscitation was performed nine times until the presence of vital signs. Computed tomography (CT) scan of the brain was obtained and showed a hyperdense lesion in the dorsal region of the left-sided of the medulla oblongata, corresponding to medullary hemorrhage []. The patient was sent to the intensive care unit for close observation until clinical stable. Ten days later, the patient was sent to another larger local hospital. Following day, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the brain revealed diffuse hyperintensity of the medulla oblongata on fluid-attenuated inversion recovery and T2-weighted sequences, corresponding to venous congestion or edema of the medulla. There were multiple dilated flow voids surrounding the medulla, more prominent on the left side, with venous varix embedded into the left-sided of the lower medulla. T1-weighted images demonstrate a round mixed iso and crescent hyperintense lesion in the dorsal region of the enlarged upper medulla, representing acute to subacute hematoma. The trajectory of hemorrhage projected superiorly from the left-sided of the lower medulla into the mid-dorsal region of the upper medulla []. Tracheostomy was performed due to prolonged intubation and recurrent pneumonia. The disabled patient gradually improved and could follow command in the next 2 weeks with quadriparesis status (power Grade 1–2/5). Two weeks later, the patient was transferred to Prasat Neurological Institute (PNI) for further investigation and proper management. The neurological examination revealed fully consciousness, evidence of spastic quadriparesis (power grade 2–