A 62-year-old African American female presented to her primary care physician with intermittent abdominal pain and discomfort for a few months. On review of systems, she denied any recent illnesses, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, fever, chills or weight loss. Besides very faint bilateral wheezing on lung auscultation, her physical examination was quite unremarkable. Her past medical and surgical history consists of asthma, type 2 diabetes mellitus, dyslipidemia, hypertension, previous tobacco user, cholecystectomy in 1988 and tubal ligation in 1986. The patient’s family history was negative for any malignancies except for her mother passing away from endometrial cancer and one brother who died from prostate cancer. An initial computed tomography (CT) scan of the abdomen and pelvis showed a 2.1-cm soft tissue mass within the omentum (). There was no hepatomegaly or splenomegaly, no lymphadenopathy or any abdominal effusions described. The differential diagnosis was quite wide and included mainly malignant mass, especially after a repeat CT scan of the abdomen and pelvis 6 months after the initial presentation that showed the mild growth to a 2.4-cm soft tissue mass within the omentum. Therefore, a CT-guided biopsy of the omental mass was persued and showed mature adipose tissue and omentum EMH ( and ). Per all the imaging done and biopsy of the omental mass, no concern or possibility of an accessory spleen was described. At that point, a secondary cause for her EMH was considered with a wide differential diagnosis including myelofibrosis, chronic hemolytic anemia or hemoglobinopathies, inflammation/infection and bone marrow irradiation, which were all excluded with the following investigations: a peripheral smear that did not show any hemolysis and only showed hypochromic red blood cells with mild leukocytosis; routine biochemical tests, including liver, pancreatic and renal function tests, serum immunoglobulins, blood and urinary protein electrophoresis and other tumoral markers were within normal ranges. Then, a bone marrow biopsy and aspirate, with flow cytometry, immunophenotyping and FISH test