A 68-year-old male patient was referred by the public health service of his city for specialized care to the Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery Service of the Federal Hospital of Rio de Janeiro State Servers/Brazil for the evaluation of volumetric increase on the right side of the face. Medical history has reported systemic hypertension and gastritis, both conditions under drug control. He also reported having had surgery for an appendectomy at 25 years of age and denied allergies. The patient reported frequent use of alcohol and smoking for 35 years and having stopped smoking 4 years ago. The patient reported a progressive and painless growth of lesion in the genian region in the last four months.
Extraoral examination revealed a tumor-like lesion, firm consistency, well-defined contours, and significant expansion near the parotid region (). On intraoral examination, a slight elevation in the ipsilateral jugal mucosa was noted, corresponding to the expansion of the medial growth tumor ().
For an incisional biopsy, computed tomography (CT) images of the face and preoperative laboratory tests were requested. The results showed normal serum levels of most of the requested blood fractions, except for slightly elevated urea and creatinine. The axial CT image () revealed an expansive lesion (approximately 6.0 × 6.0 cm) in the soft tissue of the mixed aspect and regular contours. In the coronal CT image, hyperdense foci of the lesion were observed (), suggestive of calcification or bone lysis. In the three-dimensional reconstruction of the tomography (), bone destruction in the mandibular branch was evidenced by possible tumor compression.
An intraoral incisional biopsy was performed. In the first 72 hours after the biopsy, the patient developed significant local edema and volumetric expansion of the lesion, which became inaccurate (). On gross examination, three fragments of smooth brown tissue were observed (), which were sent for histopathological analysis. After anamnesis and clinical and radiological examinations, our diagnostic hypotheses were Warthin's tumor, pleomorphic adenoma, mucoepidermoid