A 65-year-old man with a 30-year pack smoking history had undergone left lateral laryngectomy 15 years ago. He had again laryngomicrosurgery for laryngeal and interarytenoid cancers 11 years ago. After 6 years of follow-up, cancer recurred on the right larynx, and chemotherapy and 250 cGy of radiation therapy, and tracheostomy (due to airway stenosis) were performed. The patient had respiratory disturbance 18 months prior to this presentation. Work-up at the time revealed recurrence in the posterior pharynx and neck metastatic lymph nodes, and thus, surgical treatment and postoperative chemotherapy were planned. The previous tracheostomy site was severe scarred and the blood supply for need simultaneous reconstruction was poor. A radiologic study showed the external carotid artery appeared normal though narrower than expected.
Total laryngopharyngectomy by ablative surgery and functional neck dissection were performed. After resection, a complete defect of the hypopharynx, upper esophagus, and tracheostomy stroma was observed (). The defect at the tracheotomy stromal site was 8×6 cm2. The initial reconstruction plan involved the use of two flaps, one for the hypopharynx and upper esophagus and the other for the tracheostomy stroma. Pulsation was present in the external carotid artery, but on resection the facial and lingual arteries and other branches of the external carotid artery (except the superior thyroid artery) were fibrotic with no pulsation or bleeding. The external jugular vein was normal. Because only the superior thyroid artery was available, we should choice the appropriate reconstruction method for multiple area defects. Hand-held Doppler revealed a perforator placed in mid-circle (from anterior superior iliac spine to lateral margin of a patella) on an anterolateral thigh and another perforator on the ipsilateral distal thigh. The size of the anterlateral thigh (ALT) flap was determined to be 12×15 cm2 in the proximal ALT for esophageal reconstruction and an 8×6 cm2 in the distal ALT for reconstruction of tracheostomy stroma (). We dissected and elevated the ALT flap