A 47-year-old male, owner of an industrial plant, had accidental exposure to methyl iodide vapors due to leakage from duct at his plant 45 days before his current admission at our hospital. After 10–12 days of asymptomatic period after this exposure, the patient had sudden onset of episodic headache, ataxia, and vertigo. Within the next 2 days, the patient developed slurring of speech to the extent that it became completely incomprehensible for family members, he started having tremors while doing movements of limbs (during eating), his swaying movements increased, and he was not able to walk without support due to increased swaying and on few occasions he fell when trying to walk. He was admitted to a tertiary care teaching hospital of North India, where neurological investigations were done. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) brain revealed altered signal intensity predominantly involving posterior aspects of medulla oblongata including periaqueductal region, dorsal aspect of pons, midbrain, as well as dentate nuclei with sparing of dorsomedial thalami. However, cerebrospinal fluid examination and electroencephalogram were within normal range, and autoimmune encephalitis panel was also negative. On detailed neurological examination, dysarthria was present and tandem walking was impaired. He was managed with parenteral thiamine. However, within 4–5 days of admission, he additionally developed visual hallucinations, paranoid delusion, and sleep disturbance which were managed with tablet olanzapine 5 mg/d. Neurological and psychiatric symptoms started improving over a period of next 7–8 days and hence discharged from hospital. From the very next day, he resumed his work, where he had a reexposure to methyl iodide while supervising the packaging of the product. Two days after the reexposure, he again started developing swaying movements and slurring of speech which increased progressively. In addition, he became more irritable and aggressive for which he was brought to our hospital and got admitted. On examination, dysarthria was present and proprioception and tandem walking was impaired. MRI brain revealed