A 74-year-old man, in 2013, asymptomatic right ICA stenosis was found and followed up, but in June 2017, progressive stenosis, transient left limb numbness, and an abnormal right visual field appeared. He had a previous history of brachytherapy and tumor excision for oral floor cancer in 2011 and 2014. He also had dyslipidemia, hyperuricemia, and smoking history. He was given aspirin 100 mg and bezafibrate 400 mg daily before and after the surgery. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) showed an old deep white matter infarct, but no new lesion was noted, and the right ICA-middle cerebral artery (MCA) was poorly visualized on magnetic resonance angiography (MRA). Single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) showed no apparent decrease in blood flow. Cerebrovascular angiograms showed that the right CCA was occluded immediately after its origin and blood was supplied from the right vertebral artery to the ICA through the external carotid artery (ECA) [].
Considering the symptomatic CCA occlusion presenting with transient ischemic attack, CEA was selected as a treatment that could achieve revascularization and plaque removal at the same time. In addition, from the results of cerebral angiography, the occluded site extended to the CCA origin, and the proximal end of the thrombus was secured using a partial sternotomy. Under general anesthesia with transnasal intubation, surgery was started under intraoperative electroencephalogram monitoring. The skin incision along the front edge of the sternocleidomastoid muscle (SCM) was extended to the front chest, and the sternum was cut into an L shape from the median cervical incision to the right second intercostal space, which exposed the CCA origin. The treatment of the precordial region was performed jointly with a cardiovascular surgeon. The proximal end of the plaque was confirmed directly under intraoperative echo and indocyanine green (ICG) video-angiography and blood flow from the ECA to the ICA through the bifurcation was confirmed on ICG video-angiography. The ICA, ECA,