Patient 1 was a white 64-year-old male elementary school teacher, and patient 2 was a white 58-year-old male farmer. Both patients were referred to the colorectal surgery clinic for APR surgery by an oncologist following the diagnosis of rectal cancer. The initial presentation was constipation for patient 1 and severe weight loss for patient 2. Both patients had severe constipation and both reported pain on defecation and rectorrhagia. There was no history of prior surgeries, allergic reaction to drugs, psychological diseases, and smoking. A mass was found in the digital rectal examination in both patients, and they both underwent neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy to shrink the tumor size.
Pathologic studies revealed rectal adenocarcinoma. Endoanal sonographic study showed distal rectal mass with involvement of external anal sphincter in both patients. There was no metastasis in patients. All options alongside the new method were described to the patients and informed written consent was obtained.
The patients were positioned in a semi-lithotomy position and received general anesthesia. Ceftriaxone and metronidazole were administered intravenously at the induction of anesthesia. The patients also received neomycin and metronidazole orally a day before surgery and underwent APR surgery. Inferior part of rectus abdominis muscle flap was used for reconstruction with the following technique (Alem Method).
For patient 1, the flap was taken from the inferior part of the rectus abdominis muscle and mobilized by lifting up the skin paddle, its underlying fat, and rectus muscle. The skin and anterior fascia were dissected from the bulk of the muscle (). The right rectus abdominis muscle was preferably selected to allow colostomy through the left rectus muscle. The inferior part of rectus abdominis muscle was cut just below the arcuate line and medial to the semilunar line (). The inferior epigastric artery was carefully dissected. Perforating vessels in anterior rectus sheath were also dissected to achieve minimal fascial resection to prevent abdominal hernias and allowing primary closure of the defect. The flap dissection was continued to