We present a case of a 72-year-old Caucasian female who underwent adjuvant chemoradiotherapy for a Grade 2 invasive ductal carcinoma of the left breast. She had no other significant past medical history, including dermatological history, and took no regular medications. She was a non-smoker and did not consume alcohol. Presenting from the national screening programme, she underwent a wide local excision with axillary lymph node clearance. Her tumor was estrogen receptor positive, HER2 negative and had 7/28 lymph nodes positive. Weekly paclitaxel treatments were stopped after four cycles due to anaphylactoid hypersensitivity. She underwent 40 Gy of radiotherapy in 15 fractions over 3 weeks to the left breast and left supraclavicular fossa. Before commencing radiotherapy, she had no noted skin changes.
Upon routine review 8 weeks post completion of radiotherapy, oedema and erythema with blistering and desquamation of the skin were noted over the left breast and chest wall. There was also an area of desquamation on the patients’ back consistent with a radiotherapy exit field. The patient had been using simple moisturizers as instructed and managing pain with simple analgesia. The skin changes were first apparent 4 weeks after completion of radiotherapy. Initially, the skin lesions were confined to the radiotherapy field. She was afebrile with otherwise normal observations. Differentials included radiation-induced skin changes with superimposed cellulitis, autoimmune bullous disorder or a paraneoplastic process. An admission for further treatment was organized where intravenous antibiotics and antivirals were commenced alongside a regular skin treatment regimen. This consisted of Viscopaste and Tubigrip, Hydromol and Dermovate ointment as required. An initial superficial skin swab showed mixed skin flora only.
Despite optimal medical management, her skin continued to deteriorate, with a new area of desquamation over the right hip. The patient also developed painful oral erosions. Serum samples for indirect immunofluorescence were requested and the patient was commenced on 40 mg of prednisolone