We report the case of a 73-year-old woman with a history of hypertension and type 2 diabetes mellitus. She had no past or current history of smoking or alcoholism, and no relevant family history.
Presenting with asthenia, anorexia and weight loss, which had developed over 6 months, she was referred to an outpatient internal medicine facility.
The patient expressed concern about 4 skin lesions, present for more than a year. These were small, violet and scattered across the upper trunk and abdomen, with no other accompanying symptoms (). Her attending physician had suspected a skin infection or allergic reaction and prescribed topical antifungal and corticosteroid medication without any remarkable effect.
In addition to the six-month history of asthenia, anorexia and weight loss (20% of her body weight), she also reported bouts of diarrhoea and abdominal pain.
On examination, she was found to have a body mass index of 23.4 kg/m2; she had bleached mucous membranes and four erythematous, violet annular plaque lesions measuring between 1 and 4 cm – one in the right anterior axillary region (), two in the right inframammary region and one in the umbilical region. Breast examination revealed a 2 cm nodular mass in the external lower quadrant of the left breast. No adenomegalies were observable. A dermatology specialist was asked to observe the lesions, having first performed a skin biopsy. The differential diagnosis included cutaneous lymphoma, Jessner’s lymphocytic infiltrate, specific leukocyte infiltrate and cutaneous metastasis.
The patient underwent breast ultrasound and mammography, which confirmed the presence of a heterogeneous nodular lesion, with a maximum diameter of about 2 cm, in the lower external quadrant of the left breast, and left axillary adenopathy. A biopsy was performed.
The remaining diagnostic examinations revealed anaemia with a haemoglobin level of 9.2 g/dl and an increased erythrocyte sedimentation rate (86 mm/h). Thoracic, abdominal and pelvic computed tomography (CT) imaging revealed mammary asymmetry due to