A 43-year-old man was referred to our hospital reporting several months of abdominal discomfort. He was a heavy smoker with 30 pack/years. His medical history included an ischemic stroke, helicobacter pylori gastritis and severe hypertension complicated by cardiac hypertrophy. He was prescribed chlorthalidone, barnidipine, lisinopril, nebivolol, clopidogrel, simvastatin and ranitidine. His family history was remarkable for multiple aortic aneurysms and coronary artery disease in his father, who died at a young age of a ruptured aneurysm. His mother had been treated for systemic hypertension. On physical examination he was hypertensive with a blood pressure reading of 211/130 mmHg and a heart rate of 55 bpm. During auscultation of the abdomen a murmur was detected. Palpation of the abdomen was not painful. Peripheral pulsations were present in both arms and legs. Neurological examination was normal.
Laboratory results showed severe renal insufficiency with an estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) of 14mL/min and a creatinine level of 418 μmol/L. A CT angiography revealed a large suprarenal aortic aneurysm with diffuse circular atherosclerosis and extensive circumferential aortic wall thrombosis (). The celiac trunk, superior mesenteric artery and right renal artery were occluded and the right kidney was atrophic. The left renal artery was critically stenosed. The patient underwent a left renal artery percutaneous transluminal angioplasty (PTA), which was complicated by complete occlusion of the vessel. To rescue the left kidney and treat the abdominal angina a bifurcated Dacron bypass was made from the right external iliac to the left renal artery and common hepatic artery. Collateral flow via a well-developed gastroduodenal artery ensured adequate perfusion of the superior mesenteric arterial network. We were hesitant to initiate anticoagulant treatment because of the patient’s high bleeding risk due to the recent major surgery, severe hypertension and renal insufficiency. Therefore, an MRDTI scan was performed to assess the age of the thrombus; this showed a low signal intensity of