A 60-year-old male was referred to the Asan Medical Center for a nodule in the left lower lobe (LLL). The nodule was incidentally detected during the preoperative evaluation of gallstone, for which he underwent laparoscopic cholecystectomy at an outside hospital three months prior to his presentation to us. On his visit, he did not have any respiratory complaints such as productive cough or dyspnea. Medical history was unremarkable except hypertension. Further, the patient had been a non-smoker for 10 years although he used to smoke half a pack a day for 30 years before quitting.
We found that the patient's physical examination was unremarkable except decreased breath sounds over the left lower lung field. The laboratory data were all within normal limits. Chest X-ray and computed tomography scan revealed a mass having the following dimensions: 20×10×5 mm. The mass obstructed the secondary bronchus entering into the LLL, which resulted in a total collapse of LLL (). A flexible bronchoscopy showed an endobronchial mass filling the basal segments of the LLL (). Further, a biopsy indicated a granular cell tumor.
The patient underwent a left lower lobectomy via left posterolateral thoracotomy through the 5th intercostal space. The left thoracic cavity showed neither pleural adhesion nor seeding suggestive of malignancy. The LLL was heavily collapsed due to the obstruction by the endobronchial tumor. We divided the LLL bronchus at the level of the left upper lobe spur and performed a left lower lobectomy. The medial side of the left main bronchus was repaired using an interrupted anastomosis of 3-0 Vicryl. The resection margin of the bronchial stump was clear from the tumor on the frozen section. All five lymph nodes that were biopsied were tumor-free. The patient recovered well postoperatively and was discharged on postoperative day 5. Immunohistochemical staining demonstrated the positivity for S-100 protein, and the Ki-67 labeling index was low (1%), supporting the current diagnosis. The final pathology report confirmed the diagnosis of the granular cell