A 79-year-old man was referred to the Second Affiliated Hospital of Dalian Medical University with a self-detected mass in the right breast. To the best of our knowledge, there is only one reported case of this on a male, which dates back to 1984. Physical examination revealed an irregular mass in the lateral upper quadrant of the right breast measuring approximately 2×1 cm, but no mass was detectable in either axilla. There were no other associated symptoms bar a slight uncomfortable feeling on the right chest wall. Breast ultrasound showed an ill-defined mass (2.1×1.3 cm) with non-uniform internal echo. No other abnormalities were found through general examinations including computed tomography scan of head and neck, and ultrasound scan of chest and abdomen. The patient had a prior smoking history of 50 packs a month.
A preoperative biopsy of the mass was not considered. However, this parameter did not change management of the mass, because there was no evidence that the patient required neoadjuvant therapy, even though he was diagnosed with small-cell carcinoma (SMCC) of the breast before surgery. Considering the malignancy of the mass, we conducted a simple radical mastectomy and level I lymphadenectomy, without sentinel lymph node identification. The resection specimen consisted of a round fragment of skin and palpable mass, and underlying fatty soft tissue measuring 15 cm in total. Sectioning showed a firm white mass beneath the skin measuring approximately 2×1 cm. Two of nine lymph nodes were metastatic. The tumor had invaded striated muscle. Histopathological examination demonstrated that the tumor was predominantly composed of small cells with hyperchromatic nuclei demonstrating chromatin diffusion and resembling “oat cell” carcinoma of lung. The tumor was densely cellular, with cells showing thin cytoplasm, and consisted of rounded solid nests of cells. The nucleolus was inconspicuous, and cytokinesis was general. Cancer cells were oval shaped, and had finely granular nuclear chromatin with uniform and vesicular nuclei and relatively