A 48-year-old man was admitted to our hospital complaining of fever, chills, sweating, and dyspnea. He has a history of admission to our hospital for evaluation and management of suggested deep neck infection with small amount of left pleural effusion, which was improved with antibiotic and symptomatic therapy. He had smoked 1 pack per day for 25 years, and taken herbal medication for 1 month before admission, which ameliorated his symptoms a little. He had no underlying illness such as hypertension, diabetes, or autoimmune diseases. On physical examination, he showed generalized edematous appearance with venous engorgement of neck and upper chest. The lung sound was diminished on both side of lung during auscultation of chest.
Routine laboratory test including liver function test and renal function test showed normal range of results. Autoimmune markers such as fluorescent antinuclear antibody and anti-neutrophil cytoplasmic antibody also showed negative result. Chest X-ray showed massive pleural effusion in both pleural cavity without parenchymal abnormality (). Neck computed tomography (CT) and chest CT showed thrombophlebitis at left innominate vein, subclavian vein and left internal jugular vein and enlarged lymph node at left neck and axillar area with both pleural effusion and ascites and diffuse soft tissue edema (, ). Two-dimentional echocardiography showed spongiform appearance with prominent trabeculation of left ventricle (LV) with preserved LV systolic function, and no significant valvular dysfunction.
Pleural fluid analysis showed lymphocyte predominant exudates nature. But that did not suggest any specific disease. Pleural biopsy through video-assisted thoracoscopic surgery showed chronic inflammation with lymphoplasmacytic infiltration and fibrosis. Plasma cells were positive for IgG and IgG4 in immunohistochemical stain, and the ratio of IgG4 to IgG-positive plasma cells is 0.24 (). Lymph node biopsy of neck on previous admission for evaluation and management of suggested deep neck infection also showed same result for IgG and IgG4 stain (). Serum IgG4 level was 248.0 mg/