A 52-year-old male with a history of hypertension for 3 years and a smoking history of 30 pack/year suffered an electrical shock on his right hand from a contact with a 220 V of alternating current. It was presumed that the current entered his right hand and exited through his left hand. He did not have any significant symptoms immediately after the shock, so he did not seek treatment. After 1 week, however, he perceived weakness in both upper extremities. The strength of his left arm gradually improved, but the weakness in his right arm progressed. The patient visited our hospital 2 weeks post-injury.
According to the manual muscle test (MMT; Medical Research Council), both lower extremities were normal, but an examination of the right upper extremity revealed shoulder flexion and abduction (2/5), elbow flexion and extension (3/5), wrist flexion and extension (3/5), and finger extension (2/5). Motor power in his left upper extremity was graded as 5/5, except for the shoulder flexion and abduction (4/5) and wrist extension (4/5). Nerve conduction study (NCS) and electromyography were performed 4 weeks post-injury, and motor power of the right side improved to 4/5, except for the right index finger extensor (3/5). Sensory function was intact, muscle stretch reflexes were normoactive, no pathological reflexes were identified, and all the other cranial nerve and cerebellar functions were normal. A sensory NCS was normal but a motor NCS revealed delayed-onset latency and reduced amplitude of compound muscle action potentials in the right radial nerve (). There were no abnormal spontaneous activities during the needle electromyography, but a reduced recruitment of motor unit action potentials was observed in the right elbow flexor, wrist extensor, and finger extensor muscles (). The patient was diagnosed with an incomplete right radial nerve injury and received physical therapy at another hospital.
At 5 weeks after the injury, the patient visited an emergency department for a sudden