An 8 years old male child, weighing 20 kg with diagnosis of moyamoya disease with Duchenne muscular dystrophy was scheduled for an EDAMS procedure. Magnetic resonance imaging showed right middle cerebral artery territory infarct with small foci of infarct in left frontal and high fronto-parietal white matter. There were also signs of left middle cerebral artery territory infarct and near total occlusion of right sphenoid internal carotid artery with multiple collateral vessels suggestive of moyamoya disease. The child had progressively increasing bilateral lower limb weakness and was diagnosed to have Duchenne muscular dystrophy at the age of 5 years. Patient was dysphasic and had right sided hemiparesis with right sided facial nerve palsy. Cardiovascular and respiratory systems were normal. Airway examination revealed a large tongue with Mallampati Grade 3 score. Prior to induction of anaesthesia, all the vaporizers were dismounted from the anaesthesia machine, fresh soda lime was filled into the soda lime canisters and the breathing circuits were changed. Then the anaesthesia machine was flushed at a fresh gas flow of 10 l/min for 30 min prior to remove any residual anaesthetic gases residue from prior use. It was ensured that there was absolutely no inhalational anaesthetic inside the anaesthesia machine and circuit as shown by gas monitoring. After attaching the routine monitors, child was induced with 40 mcg fentanyl and 40 mg propofol. Rocuronium 20 mg was given to facilitate endotracheal intubation. Intraoperative monitoring included electrocardiography (ECG), non-invasive blood pressure, invasive blood pressure, pulse oximetry, capnography, temperature and central venous pressure monitoring. Anaesthesia was maintained with 60% nitrous oxide-oxygen-propofol-fentanyl and rocuronium. Patient was given positive pressure ventilation and to maintain the ETCO2 between 32 and 34 mm Hg. Multiple episodes of haemodynamic fluctuations (systolic blood pressure variations from 90 mm Hg to 160 mm Hg and heart rate variations from 80 to 130 beats/min) were noticed during the dissection