A 34-year-old married woman was admitted to pulmonary department with a 4-day history of hemoptysis. Hemoptysis occurred from the 3rd day of menstruation till 6th day and the total amount of hemoptysis was about 150 mL. She had no history of previous hemoptysis event. She had medical history of an appendectomy 20 years ago and pelvic inflammatory disease 2 years ago. She gave birth by normal spontaneous vaginal delivery (gravida 1, para 1) 10 years ago and she had not had a past history of obstetric or gynecological procedures before developing hemoptysis. Her medical history was otherwise unremarkable and she did not have a significant family history. She denied using smoking, excessive alcohol and illicit drugs. She had no complaints of weight loss, fever, dyspnea, palpitations, gastrointestinal symptoms or a history of bleeding. Her physical examination was within normal limits. Chest X-ray () had no abnormal findings. Chest computed tomography (CT) scan was performed on the 2nd hospital day, which was fourth day of menstruation and the CT scan showed a focal consolidation with adjacent ground glass opacity (GGO) in the posterior basal segment of the left lower lobe (), but there's no evidence of enlarged bronchial artery or vascular abnormality. Fiberoptic bronchoscopy showed a small amount of blood clot in the bronchi of left lower lobe. No endobronchial lesion was detected during the investigation. Bronchial washing fluid showed no acid fast bacilli, bacteria or abnormal cells. Hemoptysis was spontaneously resolved with the cessation of menstruation and did not recur during the rest of admission period. We assumed the illness as catamenial hemoptysis due to pulmonary endometriosis, and she was discharged. After discharge from the first admission, follow-up chest CT scan was performed for following up the lung lesion at 26th day of menstrual cycle. Previously noted focal consolidation with adjacent GGO lesion was almost disappeared and only a noncalcified 5-mm-sized nodule was left (). Four days