A 37-year-old male patient presented at the emergency service of oral and maxillofacial surgery of a private hospital in Recife, Brazil, with complaints of a painful hard swelling in the submandibular region (). He had undergone extraction of the left third molar seven days before presentation (). He has noncontributory medical or socioeconomic history, since he was not hypertensive, did not have diabetes mellitus or sexually transmitted infections such as HIV or syphilis, and did not smoke or drink alcoholic beverages.
A computed tomography revealed a hypodense image in the submandibular region accompanied by the presence of gas in their interior (). Respiratory rate and blood pressure changes were not observed. On extraoral examination, the skin of the submandibular region was tender bilaterally and of normal color. Intraoral examination revealed maximal interincisal opening (<20 mm), as well as absence of the left mandibular third molar. Blood cultures were performed, and intravenous Metronidazole (500 mg, 8/8 hours) and Rocefin (1 g, 12/12 hours) were empirically started.
On the third day, there was a slight hyperemia in the cervical region and in the thorax, and the patient reported dysphagia and dysphonia. Due to the persistence of the infection, the antibiotic was changed and a new cycle was started with 1.5 g Tazocin injected intravenously every 6 hours. To monitor the clinical status of the patient, daily laboratory tests were carried out, which showed that the body continued to exhibit marked leukocytosis (15,290). There was also positivity and an increase in the 7.32 reference value for C-reactive protein, indicating that there was still a significant infection in the body.
A new contrast-computed tomography of the face, neck, and chest clearly showed the presence of a purulent collection in pharyngeal spaces, with a descending path to the mediastinum and marked deviation of the trachea (). In view of the emergency situation, after antisepsis of the region, bilateral drainage of the submandibular