An 86-year-old man on HD visited the emergency department (ED) of Okinawa Yaeyama Hospital with the complaint of worsening dyspnea. The symptom had started with mild shortness of breath on exertion several months ago and had gradually exacerbated. Given the frequency of dyspnea associated with volume overload and/or heart failure in HD patients, his doctor in the HD clinic assumed that the symptom was caused by heart failure associated with volume overload and attempted to empirically reduce his DW. The doctor failed to reduce his DW because of the frequent falling of the blood pressure during HD. Furthermore, while his dyspnea became worse, the doctor had to increase his DW by as much as 2 kg over 3 weeks to prevent blood pressure falling and leg cramping during HD. The patient visited our ED with the complaint of an acute worsening of dyspnea during the previous few days. He denied having chest pain, cough, sputum, orthopnea or paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea, fever, chills, night sweats, or anorexia. He had a past medical history of end-stage renal disease (ESRD) due to unknown etiology and was on scheduled HD (4 h per day at 3 days per week) for 4 years with an uneventful course. He also had well-controlled essential hypertension and chronic atrial fibrillation which was treated by anticoagulation with warfarin for 4 years. He developed a hemorrhagic gastric ulcer that was probably associated with excessive anticoagulation 1 year ago. Helicobacter pylori was serologically negative at that time. Surgical repair of the left inguinal hernia was performed 10 years ago. He had no previous history of tuberculosis, pneumonia, or heart failure. He was not diabetic. He lived with his family. He worked as a construction worker up until several years ago. He smoked 2 packs of cigarettes a day for 30 years up until 30 years ago. He had no habit of regular alcohol consumption. Family history was noncontributory.
On physical examination, he was alert and appeared slightly sick. His body weight at