A 42-year-old Hispanic male without significant past medical history presented with a 4-week history of slow mentation, difficulty concentrating, and change in personality. He complained of bilateral lower extremity weakness, as well as a presyncopal episode and sudden onset of numbness involving his right body side 3 days before admission. Other symptoms included intermittent nausea and vomiting. Physical examination included slow mentation, impaired concentration, facial weakness of the right lower half, dysarthria, and mild weakness in the lower extremities without sensory level or sphincter dysfunction. Full strength in his upper extremities, diminished reflexes throughout, and intact sensation were noted. No cerebellar dysfunction, nystagmus, or Babinski signs were present. Laboratory tests for systemic autoimmune, inflammatory, and infectious diseases, and neoplasm were all negative.
Initial unenhanced head computed tomography (CT) showed hypodense lesions in the body and genu of the corpus callosum and right basal ganglia. A subsequent brain magnet-resonance-imaging revealed multiple supratentorial lesions involving the rostrum of the corpus callosum, genu of the right internal capsule and basal ganglia and subcortical cingulate white matter, with variable degrees of enhancement associated with mass effect (). Initial differential diagnoses included an acute demyelinating process versus primary CNS lymphoma, glioma, or acute/subacute ischemic infarct.
Cerebrospinal fluid analysis (CSF) showed mild increase of total protein and elevated CSF levels of myelin basic protein, without oligoclonal bands. High doses of intravenous methylprednisolone (1 gm/day) were administered; 72 hours after admission, the patient developed altered level of consciousness, aphasia, left gaze deviation, and right hemiplegia.
Cerebral angiography () demonstrated bilateral intracranial arteriopathy with occlusion of the supraclinoid segment of the left intracranial internal carotid artery distal to the takeoff of the left anterior choroidal artery, occlusion of the right anterior cerebral artery, and severe disease in the proximal right middle cerebral artery. The distal branches of the right middle and anterior cerebral arteries were mainly fed