A 76-year-old Japanese woman was referred to our hospital due to malaise, itching, anorexia, and liver dysfunction for 6 months. At her first visit to our clinic, her alkaline phosphatase (ALP) and gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase (γ-GTP) were 678 IU/L and 330 IU/L, respectively. Alanine aminotransferase, aspartate aminotransferase, and whole blood cell counts were almost within normal range, although prothrombin time was slightly prolonged. Serum hepatitis viral markers and autoantibodies were negative (). The immunofixation electrophoresis of serum and urine did not demonstrate the presence of a monoclonal light chain (data not shown).
She had pulmonary tuberculosis at the age of 26. She took oral contraceptives, and she underwent surgery and blood transfusion for endometriosis at age 47. She had surgery without transfusion for osteoarthritis of the right knee and removal of colonic polyps, at 68 and 75 years old, respectively. Hypertension, hypercholesterolemia, and hypertrophic cardiomyopathy were diagnosed at age 56, 56, and 66, respectively, but no treatments were given. She did not have a past history of rheumatoid arthritis and had never received hemodialysis. She never smoked or drank alcohol. She was not a drug abuser, and no tattoo was found. At the time of admittance to our hospital, she was not taking any medications. Her father had esophageal cancer and alcoholic liver dysfunction, and her sister had skin cancer.
Although several clinical tests were performed at the outpatient clinic during a 6-month period, as the cause of her liver dysfunction remained unknown, she was then admitted to our hospital. Contrast-enhanced computed tomography (CT) revealed hepatomegaly with narrow portal vein, hepatic vein, and mild splenomegaly (–). Although the association of liver and cardiac involvement is frequent, as her electrocardiogram and echocardiography showed normal cardiac movement (left ventricular ejection fraction, 75%) and no dilatation of the inferior vena cava, we did not consider the possibility of cardiac involvement. Renal function was within