A 34-year-old man was referred for an evaluation of presumptive bladder cancer diagnosed on gross hematuria evaluation. The patient reported a sudden onset of lower urinary tract discomfort and burning associated with a mild end-stream discoloration of his urine. These symptoms progressed, and he was empirically treated for a bacterial urinary tract infection by his primary physician with two separate courses of antibiotics. His dysuria worsened and he noted the onset of severe urinary frequency associated with bloody urine and small clots. At this point, he was referred to a urologist who performed a standard hematuria workup including urinalysis, cystoscopy and CT of the abdomen and pelvis. Imaging was unremarkable for genitourinary pathology except for haziness of the perivesicular fat, which was suggestive of an inflammatory or infiltrative process. Urinalysis was positive for hemoglobin and a urine culture was negative. Cystoscopy revealed a mass-like effect on the anterior and posterior bladder walls with inflammation, erythematous lesions, bullous edema, and focal necrosis highly suspicious of bladder cancer. Urine cytology was notable for atypia. Based on these findings, the patient was referred to a tertiary center for management.
Further questioning revealed a medical history notable for never-smoking status and a diagnosis of granulomatosis with polyangiitis, which had been made 8 months prior. He had initially presented with skin lesions on the lower extremities and subsequent laboratory studies confirmed the diagnosis. Workup demonstrated an involvement of the lung, nasopharynx, eyes, and skin; however, the patient's kidney function was intact and preserved over the course of his illness and treatment. He underwent inpatient induction therapy with plasmapheresis and high-dose corticosteroids and was discharged on an immunosuppressive regimen of 15 mg prednisone and 200 mg cytoxan daily. Three months prior to presentation, his prednisone regimen was reduced to 12.5 mg daily. Cystoscopy revealed findings similar to what has been previously noted (fig. ). Cytology review revealed atypia consistent with polyomavirus infection. Biopsy