The present case report is about a 72-year-old male patient who reported with oral discomfort and difficulty in swallowing since past 5 months. He gave a history of soreness of the oral mucosa with burning sensation on eating spicy food since past 9 years, but his symptoms had exacerbated in the past 5 months. He now complained of sore throat and difficulty in swallowing solids since past few months forcing him to a semisolid and liquid bland diet. He complained of multiple ulcers in the mouth and enlarged swollen bleeding gums, which had not resolved with symptomatic treatment given by his physician (topical lignocaine gel and chlorhexidine mouthwash). He informed that several of his teeth had progressively become mobile and had spontaneously exfoliated in the past 2 years. The partial denture that he had been using had become tight and was painful on insertion in the oral cavity. He found it difficult to eat or speak clearly without his denture.
He had been diagnosed with benign prostrate hyperplasia but was otherwise well and did not have any history of constitutional symptoms like fever, loss of appetite/weight, fatigue and arthralgia. He did not have any habits of smoking, tobacco and alcohol. There was no history of allergies or family history of similar condition. There was no history of skin, ocular or genital lesions. He did not have any systemic illnesses such as diabetes, hypertension, rheumatoid arthritis and was not taking any regular systemic medications.
On examination, there were erosive areas on the buccal mucosa, palate and tongue. There was no evidence of any vesicles, bullae or scarring and Nikolskys sign was negative. There was generalized inflammatory enlargement of the gingiva including the palate, extending into the pharynx. The gingiva, palatal and oropharyngeal mucosa was fiercely erythematous, edematous, with a cobble-stone like velvety shiny irregular surface which bled on palpation. According to the World Health Organization (WHO) toxicity criteria