A 53-year-old female patient was referred for US of a thyroid nodule incidentally detected on chest computed tomography (CT) for the evaluation of pneumonia. She had no other prior history such as diabetes mellitus and no smoking history. On physical examination, there was no palpable mass in the anterior neck. At the time of US, the white blood cell count was within the normal range (3,740/μL), and the erythrocyte sedimentation rate and C-reactive protein were elevated at 21 mm/ hr and 1.840 mg/dL respectively. The thyroid nodule detected on chest CT was revealed on US as a 9-mm, well-defined, mixed-echoic nodule in the lower pole of the thyroid gland left lobe, suggesting a benign lesion. However, several serpentine anechoic structures were detected medial to the right lobe of the thyroid gland, between the trachea and the right lobe of thyroid gland (). The anechoic structures showed internal blood flow signals on color Doppler US () and were suggested to be enlarged vascular structures. Furthermore, bilateral CCAs were unusually small with diffuse homogeneous mural thickening with barely visible intraluminal flow signals (-).
Magnetic resonance (MR) angiography was recommended to evaluate the vascular structure of the neck, and complete long segment occlusion of bilateral CCAs from the orifice was found, while bilateral internal and external carotid arteries were patent. Segmental occlusion of the left subclavian artery just distal to the vertebral artery orifice and stenosis of the left proximal subclavian artery were noted. Extensive collateral vessels were demonstrated on the right side including inferior and superior thyroidal arteries, which were detected on previous US (). These imaging findings suggested Takayasu arteritis. Other vascular structures were evaluated by CT of the aorta, and there was no grossly depicted other vascular involvement for the aorta, renal arteries, or pulmonary arteries. For the exact diagnosis, blood pressure was measured on both arms, and there was a 27-mmHg difference: right side, 130