A 58-year-old man presented with productive cough and fever. His medical history was significant for hepatitis C and a maternal family history of colon cancer. The patient had no past history of cancer or surgery. He was an ex-smoker (40 pack/year), and worked as a screenwriter and photographer. He had no history of asbestos exposure. He was initially treated with antibiotics, and his symptoms were resolved. However, due to persistent abnormal chest X-ray findings, a CT scan of the chest was carried out revealing a 5 cm × 4 cm paraspinal mass in the upper right chest, which was also intensely hypermetabolic on a corresponding positron emission tomography scan without evidence of lymph node metastasis. No pleural effusion was detected []. A radiologic differential diagnosis included a posterior mediastinal neurogenic tumor and a metastatic carcinoma. Because the mass was located adjacent to the esophagus, an esophagogastroscopy was arranged to rule out esophageal cancer, and this was normal. A magnetic resonance imaging of the brain and a bone scan were negative. Laboratory studies were all within the normal range. The mass was aspirated under CT guidance using coaxial technique and a 22-gauge needle. Air-dried and alcohol fixed smears were stained with Romanowsky and Papanicolaou method. A cell block was prepared from sample rinsed in saline, using the histogel method. Rapid on-site assessment provided by a cytopathologist was recorded as an adequate sample showing an epithelioid neoplasm.
The smears showed a hypercellular specimen consisting of loosely cohesive “lobules” of heavily vacuolated epithelioid cells displayed against a background of myxoid material, which was highlighted on Field's and Giemsa stained direct smears, suggesting the possibility of chordoma []. The vacuoles in the cells were filled with the same myxoid material seen in the background [] and were negative for mucicarmine stain. Occasional cells with intracytoplasmic vacuoles displacing their nuclei to the periphery