A 44-year-old Chinese man, weight 55 kg and height 165 cm, presented to the neurosurgery department of our institution with an 11-month history of paroxysmal headache and weakness of the right limb without any other pertinent positive symptom. The patient had been diagnosed with NF1 for more than 30 years. His past surgical history included having undergone left parietal tumor resection in May 2016, the postoperative pathology of which indicated glial sarcoma (World Health Organization grade IV). In July 2017, the patient presented with paroxysmal headache with weakness of the right limb. Computed tomography (CT) of the head revealed recurrence of left parietal glioma, acute cerebral infarction in the left frontal lobe and around ventricle. As a result, the patient received conservative treatment in the neurology department.
The only pertinent positive physical examination finding was multiple cutaneous neurofibromas and numerous café-au-lait spots of different sizes dispersed over the trunk and limbs (Fig. ). The results of the patient’s cardiovascular, respiratory, and abdominal examinations were all unremarkable. His baseline blood pressure was in the range of 120–140 mmHg for systolic blood pressure and 65–85 mmHg for diastolic blood pressure. He denied any current medication, tobacco, or alcohol use, and a family history of NF was also excluded.
The results of the patient’s preoperative laboratory examination were unremarkable, including blood and urine analysis. His electrocardiographic examination showed normal sinus rhythm. His chest x-ray revealed multiple nodules in the two lung fields, the largest being located in the upper right quadrant of the lung field and having a diameter of about 29 mm. Magnetic resonance imaging of the head revealed the recurrence of glioma. The patient was scheduled for resection of the recurrent gliomas.
During the preoperative examination, it was thought that general anesthesia application would be more appropriate for the patient. The patient was monitored with electrocardiography, heart rate (HR), invasive blood pressure, and pulse oximetry in the operating room. He was anesthetized with midazolam