A 43 year old male, Muslim Yoruba farmer residing in Osun State of Nigeria presented at the outpatient unit of Osun State Hospital, Asubiaro Osogbo, with complaints of toothache in the lower left jaw of 2 weeks duration as well as cough, dysphagia, left earache and swelling of the neck and face of 5 day duration. The Patient was in his normal state of health until about 2 weeks before presentation when he developed toothache in the lower left quadrant of the jaw. He was advised by his friend to apply acidic chemical used to recharge car batteries to rinse the mouth. On first application of the acidic chemical, he experienced burning sensation and pain making him to immediately rinse with water, which gave him some relief. Some minutes later he reapplied the acidic chemical and held it in the mouth for some minutes “so as to derive maximum benefit” as advised by his friend which he later rinsed off with water but without much relief from the burning sensation and pain. Twelve days later, his medical condition worsened as the pain persisted and increased. He also noticed a swelling around the jaw which progressively increased in size to involve the face and neck. He used different analgesics such as paracetamol and ibuprofen during this period without any improvement but rather worsening of his condition leading to progressive difficulty in swallowing, breathing and talking which made him to present at the out patient department of the State hospital.
At presentation, he was a toxic looking young man, conscious, alert well oriented in time place and person. He was having difficulty in talking and moderately dyspneic as evidenced by alar flaring. There was marked diffuse facial swelling extending from the temporal region downwards involving the face to the cervical region bilateally. Swelling was warm to touch, tender and firm in consistency. There was pus discharge from the mouth with marked trismus which prevented thorough intraoral examination. Medical history was significant for regular alcohol intake