A 61-year-old Korean woman was admitted to the Department of Vascular Surgery, presenting with a tingling sensation on both lower legs and vague chest discomfort for one month. She was a never smoker and had dyspnea (3 on Medical Research Council scale) for two weeks but no fever. She had undergone surgical excision of a benign mass of the left breast and hysterectomy due to uterine prolapse, 15 and five years ago, respectively; denied any postoperative complications and history of renal or hepatic disease. Computed tomogram (CT) angiography of the chest did not show evidence of pulmonary thromboembolism. However, 2×1.2-cm-sized nodular lesion in left lingular division abutting to mediastinal pleura and lymphadenopathies on the left paraaortic and supraclavicular area and both prevascular and subaortic area were noted (). Clots in the popliteal and calf vein of the right leg were noted on a CT angiogram for the pelvis and legs (). The patient was immediately started on treatment with continuous administration of intravenous heparin. An extensive laboratory work-up was performed in search of underlying hypercoagulability disorders (). On the fourth day, she was transferred to Department of Center for Lung Cancer for further evaluation of lung cancer. No endobronchial lesion was observed on bronchoscopic examination. Adenocarcinoma was diagnosed pathologically on a biopsy specimen of supraclavicular lymph node. Thyroid transcription factor-1 was positive on immunohistochemistry and activating mutation of epidermal growth factor receptor gene was not demonstrated. On the fifth day, palsy of the lateral gaze of both eyes and double vision was developed suddenly. She underwent brain magnetic resonance angiogram, which demonstrated subacute stage of embolic infarctions on territories of both the middle and posterior cerebral arteries and the right cerebellar hemisphere (). Neither stenotic flow nor visible plaque was demonstrated in Doppler ultrasound examination for both carotid arteries. No evidence of distant metastasis was observed on brain magnetic resonance image (MRI), bone scan, and positron emission tomography. Finally, her disease was staged as IIIB;