Our patient was a 65-year-old male. Although he had suffered rectal cancer at the age of 44, no recurrence had been detected since his treatment. He reported no alcohol use but had a smoking history of 40 cigarettes per day for 33 years. His family history was unremarkable. Regarding the present illness, he visited a neighborhood clinic with the chief complaint of epigastric pain. Abdominal ultrasound revealed dilatation of the common bile duct, and a detailed examination was performed. However, because no causes were detected, he was referred to our hospital. Physical examination revealed no abnormal abdominal findings. Blood tests revealed no increase in hepatobiliary enzymes, the absence of jaundice, and no increase in inflammatory findings. The tumor marker levels (carcinoembryonic antigen and cancer antigen 19-9) were also normal. Abdominal ultrasound, CT, magnetic resonance cholangiopancreatography, and endoscopic ultrasound revealed marked dilatation from the common to the intrahepatic bile duct, but no tumor lesion was found (fig. ). When endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography was performed, the orifice of the duodenal papilla was dilated, and mucus secretion was observed. The common bile duct was markedly dilated, and a filling defect due to mucus was observed in the duct (fig. ). The pancreatic duct was normal without dilatation. When intraductal ultrasound (IDUS) was performed under suspicion of intraductal papillary neoplasm of the bile duct (IPNB), an exophytic papillary lesion was detected in the intrapancreatic bile duct (fig. ). Furthermore, peroral cholangioscopy (POCS) was performed revealing an exophytic papillary lesion at the same site (fig. ). The common bile duct was filled with abundant mucus. There were no lesions from the intrahepatic to the common bile duct. Thus, IPNB with the focal area located in the intrapancreatic bile duct was diagnosed. Although no apparent malignant cells were detected by cytology or biopsy, subtotal stomach-preserving pancreaticoduodenectomy was performed because of the high mucus-producing ability and concerns over malignant transformation (fig. ).