A 37-year-old woman was referred to our institution for further management of a mass lesion located in the thoracic cavity, which was revealed on a chest computed tomography (CT) scan taken at another hospital. She complained of left-sided flank pain that was aggravated with deep inspiration for twelve months and began to experience dyspnea for one month. She had a history of pulmonary tuberculosis with a six-month course of anti-tuberculosis medication 20 years earlier. She did not have a history of smoking or environmental or occupational exposures to toxins. The laboratory tests including tumor markers on admission were normal. The result of acid fast staining of her sputum was also normal. Findings of physical examinations were unremarkable. The initial chest radiograph taken at the other hospital 8 months previously demonstrated an ambiguous consolidation in the left lower lung without a definite mass lesion (). The patient did not receive treatment for the lesion but has been followed-up for eight months. A chest radiograph taken eight months after the initial visit revealed an irregularly shaped large mass occupying the left lower lung field and compressing the left lower lobe and diaphragm (). Compared with the initial chest radiograph, the mass had grown markedly. Consequently, chest CT was carried out immediately. Chest CT showed two irregularly shaped soft tissue masses adjacent to the parietal pleura in the left hemithorax, which contained dense calcifications without the invasion of the ribs ().
For correct diagnosis and proper treatment, surgical excision of the masses was performed through left thoracotomy via the 7th intercostal space. The intraoperative findings showed two hard and irregularly shaped masses with a hard osteoid surface. These masses were clearly separated. One was 8 cm in size and was located at the costophrenic angle, and the other was 4 cm in size, located adjacent to the inner surface of the shaft of the 6th rib. They had invaded the adjacent structures including the left lower lobe, chest wall, and the diaphragm, but had not invaded the adjacent ribs.