A 52-year-old female was referred to our hospital with the diagnosis of LAM. She had pneumonia 3 months prior to admission. The diagnosis of myxoma was made during the workup of shortness of breath that persisted despite the treatment of the pneumonia with antibiotics. The patient was a heavy smoker. On admission the patient appeared ill with a blood pressure of 130/86 mmHg and a heart rate of 105/min. Clinical examination revealed a mid-diastolic murmur increasing on expiration with a grade 2/6 pan systolic murmur located at the sternal border increasing on inspiration and bilateral basal crepitations on chest auscultation. Chest X-ray showed some atelectasis with right blunting of the costophrenic angle. ECG showed sinus rhythm with ST segment depressions in the lateral leads.
Transthoracic echocardiogram (TTE) revealed a 4.8 × 2.5 cm mobile mass arising from the interatrial septum of a severely dilated left atrium, causing moderate left ventricular inflow obstruction with a mean gradient of 12 mmHg and trace mitral regurgitation (Fig. A and B). There was severe tricuspid regurgitation with a systolic pulmonary artery pressure of 61 mmHg. The patient described symptoms of angina before her current hospitalization for shortness of breath. For that reason, a coronary angiogram was ordered before her surgery and revealed 80% lesions in the mid-left anterior descending artery and a 70% stenosis at the origin of the posterior descending artery of a dominant left circumflex artery.
The next morning after her coronary angiogram, the patient suddenly showed signs of confusion and began to experience slurred speech and left-sided facial droop with left-sided hemiplegia. She was intubated to protect the airway and was sent for an urgent computed tomography (CT) scan of the head, which revealed a hyperdense minute clot lodged at the right internal carotid artery bifurcation. Accordingly, tissue plasminogen activator thrombolytic therapy was initiated. A repeat TTE showed that the mass was markedly