34-year-old female patient fell from a 10-m height and was immediately moved to an adjacent emergency center. Thoracic spine fracture (T12) with retropulsion into the spinal canal causing T12 myelopathy was diagnosed. Mega-dose steroid therapy was started, followed by transfer to the Department of Neurosurgery in our hospital. She underwent decompression of the spinal canal followed by posterior fusion of the spine. The procedure took 4 hours. After postoperative stabilization, the patient was referred to the Department of Rehabilitation Medicine for further treatment. On clinical examination, her cardiopulmonary system was stable and she was a complete paraplegic (the American Spinal Injury Association [ASIA] grade A, neurological level of injury L1). She had well-controlled schizophrenia for 10 years, without any positive symptoms including hallucination. She had taken 400 mg clozapine, 1 mg benzatropine, and 40 mg ziprasidone every day for several years without significant side-effects. No other systemic illnesses or family histories were noted. She did not smoke or abuse drugs, and was not dependent on alcohol. On initial evaluations including whole body bone scan, there were no other combined injuries. After being transferred to the rehabilitation department, she started an active rehabilitation program.
About 1 week after beginning active rehabilitation, she complained of intermittent nausea and vomiting without abdominal pain, myalgia, or other systemic symptoms. The symptoms persisted even after management of fecal impaction. She did not have past history of gastrointestinal problems, and physical examination did not reveal abdominal tenderness or other positive findings indicative of gastrointestinal lesions. Abdominal X-ray did not show any specific abnormalities. The findings lessened the possibility of gastritis or ulcerative lesions, so gastric fiberscopy was not done. Blood chemistry did not show any evidence of uremia or electrolyte imbalance. Her drugs were reviewed for possible emetic effect and administration of pregabalin was stopped, but the symptoms did not improve. Brain magnetic resonance imaging taken on admission was unremarkable and, since