A 12-year-old boy presented to the oral and maxillofacial surgery department of our institution with swelling in lower jaw since 6 months, which progressively increased in size and was painful. It was diagnosed to be dentigerous cyst that required excision due to its painful symptomatology. He was an established case of Duchenne muscular dystrophy since childhood and was confined to wheel chair since then. The child had no history of recent upper respiratory tract infection or previous anesthetic exposures. On physical examination, the weight of the child was measured to be 48 kg and he had wasting of muscles in both the lower limbs with motor power of grade II. Airway examination revealed mouth opening of >3 cm with modified Mallampati grade of II, normal thyromental and mento-hyoid distance and normal range of neck movements []. Examination of the back revealed a mild scoliosis involving the thoraco-lumbar region with convexity toward the right side. Cardiovascular and respiratory system examination was unremarkable. The laboratory investigations were all within normal limits except for raised creatine kinase levels of 1823 IU/L (normal 75–230). The electrocardiography showed sinus tachycardia and biventricular hypertrophy and findings of echocardiography revealed an ejection fraction of 32% with moderate depression of the left ventricular systolic function. The child was planned for excision of dentigerous cyst. During the preoperative visit, the child and the parents were highly anxious about the procedure but after careful counseling and discussion of various implications and the risks associated with general anesthesia, the parents and the child agreed to undergo the procedure under procedural sedation. The child was given nil per oral instructions according to the standard protocol and was advised tab. ranitidine 150 mg PO and tab. metoclopramide 10 mg PO in the night and in the morning 2 h before the planned procedure. On the day of procedure, the anesthesia machine was properly checked and flushed to remove any traces of inhalational agents and all vaporizers were removed. The child was shifted to the operating room and an intravenous line