The case we present here is about a 40-year-old man who was referred to our pain clinic with severe ischemic pain of right lower limb. The pain started gradually 10 months back and became very severe for the last 1 month. The intensity of pain was increasing in both the sitting and lying down positions and decreasing in a standing position. Many non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs were tried earlier without much benefit. Over the last 1 month, the severity of the pain was so bad that the patient had to stand all the time and sitting or decubitus position was not tolerable even for 1 min. His sleep was so miserable that he had been taking small naps in that standing position leaning onto some support. He had carcinoma rectum for which he underwent abdominoperineal resection 8 years ago. There was history of smoking prior to that. After the surgery, he had been leading a near normal life driving auto rickshaw for a living until he developed the present problem. There were many gangrenous ulcers over his right thigh and leg. A computed tomography-angiogram was done previously that showed a thrombus in the right common iliac artery measuring about 9.5 cm extending up to the right superficial femoral artery with a near total occlusion of the lumen and poorly developed collaterals. He was scheduled for a conventional peripheral angiogram for deciding on the further plan. However, he could not lie down in the catheterization laboratory due to severe pain and was referred to our Department of Pain Management. We initially tried a conservative approach with a combination of oral pregabalin, diclofenac, paracetamol, and tramadol as per the standard dosage protocol for 2 days. When there was no satisfactory pain relief, we planned epidural analgesia. However, the problem here was the positioning. Patient was not able to tolerate either sitting or lateral decubitus position even for 1 min. He was somewhat comfortable only in the standing position. Considering the special situation, though not conventional, we decided to place the epidural catheter