A 70-year-old female who had never smoked presented with shortness of breath due to a massive right-sided pleural effusion. Two and a half liters of blood-stained pleural effusion fluid were drained. Computed tomography (CT) examination revealed a right lung lower lobe tumor in addition to the right-sided pleural effusion. A right-sided closed blind pleural biopsy and a subsequent video-assisted thoracoscopic pleural biopsy both revealed thyroid transcription factor (TTF)-1 positive adenocarcinoma which harbored an insertion mutation in exon 20 of the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) gene but negative for anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK) translocation by fluorescent in-situ hybridization (FISH). Talc pleurodesis was performed at video-assisted thoracoscopic surgery. She was treated with erlotinib 150 mg once daily for a month without any symptomatic or radiological improvement. She then received four cycles of carboplatin (area under the concentration-time curve of 6) + pemetrexed (500 mg/m2) + bevacizumab (15 mg/kg) every 3 weeks with stable disease as the best response. Serial three monthly CT scan examinations revealed gradually enlarging right lower lobe tumor and right upper lobe nodules. When she developed symptomatic disease progression with the third serial CT scan (Fig. a), she was treated with six cycles of single agent docetaxel once every 3 weeks with stable disease as the best response. Serial three monthly chest CT scans showed stable right intrathoracic disease but multiple enlarging right axillary lymph nodes. One month after the sixth cycle of docetaxel, she developed painless erythematous skin nodules over her right breast and the lower right-sided anterior chest wall which extended across the midline to the medial aspect of the left breast with a diffuse non-tender hard right breast lump and right nipple retraction (Fig. ). Her left breast was normal on palpation. Breast ultrasound and mammogram examinations were not performed. A core needle biopsy of the breast lump showed TTF-1 positive adenocarcinoma which was negative for