A 51-year-old female was admitted to our hospital with a 3-month history of tonic-clonic seizures lasting up to 20 minutes each, and left-sided limb weakness. Her family reported that she did not sustain any head injuries during her seizures, and always recovered completely without fever, headache, or cognitive dysfunction.
Prior to admission to our hospital, she had been admitted to another hospital on several occasions. Following her first seizure, which was 20 minutes in duration, she was assessed at a clinic. At presentation, her vital signs were normal, and head CT, MRI, and electroencephalography were normal. She was diagnosed with epilepsy. As no abnormalities were detected on imaging studies and she had no previous history of seizures, she was not started on prophylactic anticonvulsive medication. She was asymptomatic until 25 days later, when she had a tonic-clonic seizure lasting approximately 10 minutes. She was assessed at the emergency department. Head CT showed a low-density lesion in the right frontal lobe, and MRI showed an area of abnormal signal in the right frontal lobe. However, magnetic resonance angiography of the head was normal. Full body positron emission tomography demonstrated decreased uptake of fluorodeoxyglucose in the right frontal lobe.
She was admitted to hospital. Her vital signs were normal. Serum electrolyte, blood urea nitrogen, creatinine, glucose, albumin, bilirubin, alkaline phosphatase, aspartate aminotransferase, cholesterol, triglyceride, and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels, and red blood cell and platelet counts, were normal. She was diagnosed with epilepsy and treated with intravenous fluids, mannitol, and anticonvulsant medication (sodium valproate). She improved significantly over the course of her admission. Although she still had occasional seizures, she was discharged home on the 7th day after admission on sodium valproate 0.2 mg, three times daily.
For the first 14 days after discharge, she was seizure-free, but gradually developed left-sided limb weakness. On the 15th day, she could no longer move her