A 76-year-old woman with no prior significant medical or surgical problems was referred to the University of California San Diego Medical Center for evaluation of a 5-cm right solid renal mass diagnosed on computed tomography urogram (CTU) in the evaluation of new-onset gross painless hematuria. She denied any history of tobacco smoking or illicit drug misuse. The results of a clinical examination were unremarkable for any abdominal or flank masses, organomegaly, or lymphadenopathy. Hematological and biochemical laboratory values were within the normal range (blood urea nitrogen, 8 mg/dL; serum creatinine, 0.73 mg/dL; and glomerular filtration rate, >60).
Preoperative CTU demonstrated a heterogeneous parenchymal right renal mass suspicious for RCC, along with right ureteral and renal pelvis filling defects (). Rigid urethrocystoscopy and a right retrograde pyelogram were performed and did not demonstrate any mucosal lesions or any filling defects in the bladder, ureter, or renal pelvis. Cytology of urine obtained during cystoscopy revealed epithelial cell clusters with atypia without overt features of malignancy. Some reactive urothelial cells were noted in the background. Further imaging showed no evidence of abdominal or retroperitoneal lymphadenopathy, organomegaly, or distant metastasis.
Given the clinical presentation and imaging findings, robotic-assisted laparoscopic right nephrectomy was offered. The risks, benefits, and potential complications were discussed thoroughly with the patient. Subsequently, robotic-assisted laparoscopic right nephrectomy was successfully performed with no complications. The patient had an uncomplicated postoperative recovery course. However, on postoperative day 4, she developed a low-grade fever and productive cough consistent with an upper respiratory tract infection (URTI) secondary to testing influenza A positive. This URTI completely resolved with an oral course of azithromycin. The patient was discharged home on postoperative day 6 in a comfortable and stable condition.
Pathologically, the right kidney specimen showed unclassified RCC with extensive extracellular but intraluminal mucin production with a maximum diameter of 5 cm and with renal sinus fat involvement