A 48-year-old male was referred to our clinic for assessment of hepatitis C (HCV). His past medical history included mild chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, spinal surgery, remote eczema, and past alcohol, cigarette and intravenous drug use. He reported an allergy to penicillin and was taking naproxen daily for back pain. Treatment for HCV, genotype 1, was initiated with pegylated interferon alfa-2a 180 mcg subcutaneously once per week and oral ribavirin 1000 mg per day. On the fourth day of treatment he experienced an intermittently pruritic and enlarging rash localized to his arms and legs. He described these painless lesions as migrating cloud-like rings, which eventually became confluent with nearby lesions. Dermatologic exam one week after starting therapy showed multiple large annular erythematous lesions, each with a non-scaly peripheral red border (). The patient denied any fevers or chills, the eruption was not localized to the injection site, there was no presence of bullae, erosions, or mucous membrane involvement. Punch biopsy was obtained; however, due to the absence of alarming symptoms we elected to continue treatment at the same dosages and manage the reaction with betamethasone valerate 0.1% cream applied twice daily along with oral hydroxyzine 25 mg as needed for pruritus.
Histopathology of the skin biopsy () revealed a sparse superficial perivascular infiltrate of lymphocytes and eosinophils. The epidermis was unremarkable, there was no evidence of vasculitis, and the periodic acid-Schiff (PAS) stain was negative for fungi. As well, labs at this time did not show any eosinophilia. Following the second interferon injection, the eruption flared at the same sites and had the same migratory nature as observed the prior week. The rash again improved over the next several days with topical steroids while continuing on ribavirin, yet re-emerged following the third interferon injection. The rash then completely resolved by the fourth week of interferon with no further dermatologic reactions. Diagnosis based on