A 66-year-old man presented acutely to hospital with a week's history of abdominal pain, ‘coffee ground’ vomiting and progressively worsening malaise with signs of dehydration. His symptoms commenced with a sudden onset of severe abdominal pain followed by the inability to pass urine. There was no history of abdominal trauma. He was a smoker with a previous history of alcoholism, however, had been abstinent now for several years. He had no Urological history.
On examination, he was significantly dehydrated with a moderately distended generally tender abdomen with a moderate degree of peritonism. No other specific signs were elicited.
The patient was resuscitated with crystalloid fluid and bloods were sent for analysis. Noted abnormalities of his blood results included a C-reactive protein of 107, a creatinine of 812 mmol/l and potassium of 5.9 mmol/l. Amylase and hemoglobin were within normal range.
A non-contrast CT (NCCT) scan was arranged in view of the patient's significant renal impairment; images revealed a moderate amount of ascites, a thickened but collapsed bladder, and a small cirrhotic liver with no evidence of hydronephrosis or pneumoperitoneum []. He was admitted under the general medical team for further investigations including upper gastrointestinal endoscopy which demonstrated signs of esophagitis, gastritis and a chronic duodenal ulcer in the first part of the duodenum.
His serum creatinine normalized over the course of a few days and a subsequent ultrasound scan that had been arranged to exclude portal venous hypertension, appeared to show that the ascites had resolved. A week after admission, the patient failed his trial without catheter, with a painful 200 mls clear urine residual on re-catheterization and a subsequent rise in creatinine to 200 mmol/l. On direct questioning, the patient admitted that he had suffered from urinary frequency and nocturia with progressively poor flow for the last year. Digital rectal examination revealed an enlarged benign-feeling prostate, hence an alpha-blocker