A 64-year-old male was examined in the cataract clinic of the Tel Aviv Medical Center for the possible removal of a densely mature cataract in his right eye. His past medical history included heavy smoking, hypertension, hyperlipidemia, and noninsulin-dependent diabetes mellitus, and he did not have any past ocular history. Visual acuity (VA) in the right eye was hand movement and in the left eye 20/50. There was no relative afferent pupillary defect (RAPD). Visual loss in the right eye was consistent with the degree of maturity of the cataract. Since it was impossible to view the posterior pole through the dense cataract, ultrasonography was performed and found to be normal. The left eye had a nuclear sclerotic cataract and a normal dilated fundus examination. Subsequently, the patient underwent a cataract extraction in the right eye by phacoemulsification with an implantation of a posterior chamber intraocular lens. Surgery was performed under topical anesthesia and was uneventful. On the first day after surgery, corneal edema was seen, attributed to the high energy required to aspirate the dense cataract; however, it resolved rapidly during the following days. Intraocular pressure on the first postoperative visit was 15 mm Hg. One month after surgery, VA was 20/50 and the ocular examination was normal.
Two months after surgery, the patient experienced a sudden loss of vision in the right eye. Upon examination, VA was 20/120 and a positive right RAPD was found. The optic disc was swollen with surrounding flame-shaped hemorrhages. He was diagnosed with NAION and was started on aspirin 100 mg daily.
Four months later, the patient complained of decreased vision in his left eye. VA in the left eye was 20/400 and was consistent with progression of the cataract. Following a detailed explanation of the risks involved with cataract surgery in these circumstances, including a 50% risk for NAION after surgery [], the patient expressed his desire to undergo the procedure in order to improve his vision. Surgery in the left eye