The patient is a 59 year old Caucasian female who lives alone in a council flat and has been known to mental health services for depression with somatic features. She presented to The Oleaster via the Home Treatment Team with worsening symptoms of somatisation and a loss of mobility. These symptoms began over twenty years ago where the patient described severe back and leg pain associated with cramping, paraesthesia, paresis and anergy. She felt this was as a result of a spinal injury she sustained while giving birth to her son. A magnetic resonance image of her spine only revealed disc degeneration. Prior to 2003 the patient had 14 admissions to hospital for these symptoms. Her mental health deteriorated over the days preceding admission and this manifested itself by hopelessness, despair and suicidal ideation. She felt she was a rotting corpse and expressed the wish of wanting to die. There were no current or previous attempts to commit suicide. She was low in mood and suffered from anhedonia. The patient displayed hostile behaviour. She also experienced reduced concentration, early morning awakening and a suppressed appetite. Furthermore, she was unable to shower because of the pain in her legs and consequently her personal hygiene deteriorated. The patient explained that the blood circulation to her legs was compromised therefore resulting in her legs rotting and falling off. In her opinion, she felt she had always been misdiagnosed and was pre-occupied about this. She asked why she was not in a nursing home as my legs are not working, rather than a mental health hospital.
The patient also suffered from rumination, constantly focusing on her back and leg pain in addition to conveying somatic delusions.
She had previously been discharged from inpatient services only two months prior to this admission. During her last inpatient stay, she was detained under Section 3 of the MHA 2007. Following initial treatment with antipsychotic and antidepressant medication the patient’s mental state did not improve. She was therefore offered ECT and after