A 75-year-old female never smoker presented to the ear, nose and throat specialist with hoarseness, dry cough, difficulty swallowing and a 3 kg weight loss since 1 month.
5 years earlier she was treated with radioactive iodine for a toxic multinodular goiter. She also had a past medical history of a stage Ic well-differentiated serous papillary ovarian carcinoma treated with surgery and adjuvant chemotherapy.
On clinical examination, a multinodular and enlarged thyroid gland was palpated. A computed tomography (CT) scan of the neck and chest revealed a large mass (8 × 9 cm) in the anterior mediastinum involving the right thyroid lobe and causing deviation of both trachea and oesophagus. There were multiple pathologically enlarged cervical, supraclavicular and mediastinal lymph nodes as well as multiple bilateral lung metastases (). Further staging revealed a bone metastasis in the right iliac crest. During bronchoscopy paralysis of the right vocal cord was noticed as well as invasion of the trachea with reduction of tracheal diameter estimated at 25%. No intracranial metastases were present on baseline brain CT imaging. A biopsy of a cervical lymph node was performed showing diffuse infiltration by an abnormal epithelial cell proliferation. The abnormal cells were large with large and hyperchromatic nuclei. Multiple mitotic figures were present as well as necrosis and several infiltrating lymphocytes. Immunohistochemical studies on the neoplastic cells were negative for thyroid transcription factor-1 (TTF-1), PAX-8, thyroglobulin, cytokeratin AE1/AE3, cytokeratin 7, CD 45, CD 34 and S-100. The pathological findings were compatible with an anaplastic large cell malignancy.
The case was discussed at the multidisciplinary tumor board and based on clinical presentation, imaging and pathology a diagnosis of primary anaplastic thyroid cancer was made. Next generation sequencing (NGS, TRUSEQ, MISEQ, ILLUMINA) was negative for molecular drivers. PDL1-staining was positive with a high expression (60% of tumor cells). At that point the clinical condition of the patient was