A 52-year-old male patient presented to ENT clinic with hoarseness of voice for 6 months. Patient had been chronic smoker, who recently stopped smoking after 30 years. His medical history revealed that he was both diabetic and hypertensive and was taking oral hypoglycemic agents and antihypertensive agents for that. He had been treated for pulmonary tuberculosis around 20 years back with a complete course of antitubercular treatment. On examination, indirect laryngoscopy revealed right vocal cord palsy, without palpable cervical lymph nodes. Laboratory workup was normal. Chest radiograph revealed mediastinal lymphadenopathy with right upper lobe and lower zone lesions. A working differential diagnosis of carcinoma larynx, carcinoma esophagus or carcinoma bronchus was reached in view of clinical profile.
Patient was scheduled for panendoscopy to determine the cause of hoarseness of voice. Preanesthetic checkup showed fair glycemic control and adequate control of blood pressure. Patient was premedicated with Ativan 2 mg the night before surgery and asked to continue antihypertensive medications. A general anesthetic technique was employed with midazolam 1 mg followed by fentanyl 2 mcg/kg intravenously after attaching monitors. General anesthesia was induced with propofol 2.5 mg/kg intravenously and relaxation was facilitated with vecuronium 0.1 mg/kg after preoxygenating the patient with 100% oxygen for 5 min. A 6.0 ID endotracheal tube was inserted after gentle laryngoscopy. Panendoscopy was done by the ENT surgeon, and intraoperative period was uneventful. At the end of the procedure, the patient was reversed and extubated successfully. Patient was sent to the postanesthesia care unit for recovery.
The panendoscopy revealed no local abnormality. In view of chest X-ray findings, computed tomography (CT) scan of the thorax was done to find out extra-laryngeal causes of vocal cord palsy. CT scan revealed a large aortic aneurysm extending from the arch of the aorta to the level of the descending aorta, causing compression of right bronchus and recurrent laryngeal nerve and thus right vocal cord palsy