A 65-year-old female patient with a 20-year history of thyroid goiter was admitted to our clinic due to progressive neck enlargement for the past 2 months. Her previous medical history revealed only hypertension. Her weight was stable and she was a smoker for 26 years (19–45 years old). On physical examination, her vital signs were stable. A fixed hard neck mass was palpable in the left thyroid lobe. There was no palpable cervical lymphadenopathy, and examination of chest, heart, nervous system and abdomen was normal. Thyroid ultrasound was performed revealing a mass of the left lobe measuring 4.5 × 5.2 × 5.9 cm with retrosternal extension. The ultrasound also showed the presence of enlarged lymph nodes in the left neck. Fine needle aspiration (FNA) cytology was performed which showed no definite signs of malignancy. The patient was scheduled for operation and underwent total thyroidectomy. The recurrent nerves were identified and preserved in both sides. The excision of the thyroid gland (Fig. ) was accompanied by six enlarged lymph nodes that seemed to be suspicious during the surgical procedure. No infiltration of adjacent organs (esophagus, trachea and carotid) was noted intraoperatively. The patient's hospitalization was uneventful and was discharged on the second postoperative day.
Histological examination showed the presence of moderately differentiated SCC which infiltrated mainly the left and focally the right lobe of the thyroid gland (Fig. ). Large areas of fibrosis with hyalinization, calcification, bone formation and foci of necrosis were observed. Possibly due to the formerly mentioned lesions, the cytological aspiration was negative for malignancy. Out of the six resected lymph nodes, three showed metastasis of the SCC. Neoplastic cells were also observed in the perilymphnodal lipoid tissue. Sections from other sites of the thyroid showed goiter-like lesions with no signs of Hashimoto's thyroiditis or any other neoplasm. On the basis of the above results, the patient was referred for further treatment to an oncology clinic.
A month