Our patient was a 24-year-old Albanian man who was admitted to the Emergency Department of the University Hospital in Kosovo in severe hemorrhagic shock due to a massive hematuria. The patient is a farmer, does not smoke, and does not consume alcohol. He has no significant family and social history of medical relevance. Ten years ago, he had sustained a third-degree burn injury over approximately 70% of his body surface area and had been treated in a specialized center in a neighboring country. During that hospitalization, the patient had multiple venous lines placed in the groin and developed an infection that led to the rupture of the common femoral artery. To treat it, an autogenous vein extra-anatomic iliofemoral bypass was constructed. Since then, he had never been seen by a vascular surgeon.
Prior to his admission to our emergency department, he had two episodes of gross hematuria for which he was treated at the regional hospital. Diagnostic evaluation during earlier hospitalizations did not reveal the cause of bleeding. AUF was not considered on either of the occasions. The treatment was conservative and involved bladder lavage and blood transfusions. He was discharged on antibiotics, uroseptics, and iron supplements.
The possibility of communication between the arterial and urinary tracts was suspected on the basis of cystoscopy performed in the outpatient setting 2 days before the current admission (Fig. ). The finding of the source of the bleeding at the right upper corner of the bladder, very close to the ureteral opening, raised the suspicion of possible AUF. The diagnosis was confirmed the next day, when contrast-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging showed proximity of a small pseudoaneurysm located at the proximal anastomosis of the enlarged extra-anatomic right iliofemoral autogenous vein graft and bladder (Fig. ). The patient, who was free of bleeding, was referred to a vascular surgeon and admitted to the vascular surgery department. Several units of red blood cells and fresh frozen plasma (FFP) were ordered, along with antibiotics, and