A 60-year-old female of north Indian origin, reported to the OPD of GMC, Patiala, on 2 April 2013 with the complaint of postmenopausal bleeding since six months. Bleeding was off and on and irregular in nature. She also had lower abdominal pain, which was mild in intensity, non-radiating and having no variability with change of posture or respiration. There was also a history of weight loss and decreased appetite over the last two months. There were no associated bowel or bladder complaints. There was no history of any long-term illness or any chronic disease or any prior hospitalization.
Patient was moderately built. Vitals were stable with blood pressure 136/88mm Hg, pulse rate 76/min and respiratory rate 18/min; no pallor was present.
On per abdominal examination, a soft to firm midline mass was palpable, which was about 20 weeks as compared to a pregnant uterus and had smooth surface. The mass was mobile from side to side, with no tenderness or any changes in the overlying skin.
On per vaginal examination, the cervix was directed backward, uterus was anteverted, around 20 weeks size and mobile, B/L fornices were clear, and no tenderness was observed.
Patient had already undergone an endometrial biopsy and cervical biopsy on 8 March 2013 at a private nursing home, which showed malignant mesenchymal lesion and features suggestive of chronic cervicitis. On computed tomography dated 22 March 2013, there was a large, well-defined heterogeneous enhancing mass of approximately 14 × 12 cm size seen arising from uterus with thinned out peripheral rim of normal myometrial tissue with possible infiltration into myometrial wall anteriorly with few nodular calcifications seen in the peripheral and central regions. Both the ovaries were normal looking. The pelvic fat planes were well maintained and appeared normal. Muscular and bony walls had normal outline. There was no lymphadenopathy.
Probable diagnosis of endometrial growth was made and the patient was advised surgery. All necessary investigation was done.