A 70-year-old female without significant past medical history presented to the clinic after the results of a routine mammogram revealed the continued presence of a small mass in her right breast. A mammogram dated 3 years prior detected this mass and reported it as small and benign, located inferior to an implant of her right breast. The more recent mammogram findings reported no change in size. The patient was asymptomatic and denied previous history of cancer and no family history of breast cancer, or other malignancies. She denied weight loss, fever, night sweats, or change in appetite. However, she did report mild discomfort with self-palpation to her lower right breast. Her breast implants were placed 28 years ago in Argentina for cosmetic reasons and have not since been revised. Additionally, she reported a long history of smoking tobacco daily.
To rule out malignancy, an ultrasound was performed and confirmed the presence of an elongated nodular density benign in appearance. The mass had multiple areas of hyperechoic densities within it and was located at the 8 o'clock position 10 cm from the right nipple. The size was measured to be 3.4 × 1.3 × 3.2 cm, with no evidence of shadowing or implant rupture reported (). The impression of the ultrasound was the presence of a hamartoma, a benign lesion of the breast that corresponded with previous mammogram results. Despite recommendations for a follow-up mammogram at a later date, the patient was referred by her primary care provider for fine-needle biopsy and samples were sent for evaluation.
Biopsy samples were sent to pathology for analysis using histology, immunohistochemistry, and FISH studies. Histologic sections of the core biopsy fragments showed malignant lymphoma of diffuse pattern. The tumor cells were large in size with anaplastic and focally spindled morphology. Additionally, there were increased mitotic figures and cellular apoptosis. Immunohistochemistry revealed lymphoma cells positive for CD20, PAX5, BCL2, BCL6, and vimentin and negative for CD3