A 41-year-old chronic alcoholic and smoker male patient residing in western India presented with history of acute painless monocular vision loss in right eye over seconds while drinking at home. The symptoms were non-progressive since onset, and the patient sought consultation after 4 days due to lack of any improvement in symptoms. The patient was diagnosed as being hypertensive since 5 years, but was not compliant with his medications and reported bilateral parieto-occipital mild heaviness-type of evening headache since 5 years without any other symptom. There was no early morning worsening of his headache or any associated complaints of vomiting or visual blurring over the last few years. There was no previous history of any focal neurological deficits, transient ischemic attacks, amaurosis fugax, ischemic heart disease or diabetes, or similar history in family members. General examination did not reveal any subcutaneous nodules or any other positive finding. Both pupils were of equal size and normally reacting to light and accommodation. He was able to count fingers at 1 m by the right eye, and acuity was 6/12 in the left eye. Color vision was normal in the left eye and was decreased appropriate to loss of acuity in the right eye. Fundus examination revealed focal anterior displacement of retina in right macula suggestive of a cystic lesion. Left eye fundus examination was normal and did not reveal any evidence of papilledema. Subsequently, full thickness retinal mapping was done which was suggestive of subretinal choroidal neurocysticercosis with greatly diminished visual field and retinal pigment epithelium/choroid disruption []. A brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) was done which revealed multiple intracerebral neurocysticercosis in both hemispheres without any significant mass effect or hydrocephalus [Figures and ] while MRI of the entire spinal cord was normal. The patient was advised surgical evacuation of the cyst followed by albendazole regime, but refused for surgery. AHD use in patients with ocular cysticercosis is associated with inflammatory response and retinal detachment leading to vision loss. He was