A 46-year-old man with 20 pack-year was referred to our hospital for work up and investigations of a large anterior mediastinal mass as can be seen on chest radiography in March 2012. He had neither symptoms nor family history of neurofibromatosis Type I (NF-1). Mr. KS complained of dry nonproductive cough and dyspnea on exertion since January 2012. He was a known hypertensive and has been on irregular medications for a period of eight months. General physical examination revealed a soft cystic swelling in the right cervical region. Breath sounds were diminished on the left side with muffled heart sounds on auscultation. Contrast enhanced computed tomography (CT) scan of the chest revealed a large 17×9.9 cm minimally enhancing mass with speckled multifocal calcification in the anterior mediastinum (). The mass was seen extending up to the left anterior lateral chest wall with invasion of the pleura with evidence of mild pericardial effusion.
A CT guided percutaneous core needle biopsy was performed. Histopathology revealed a tumor composed of cartilaginous areas and spindle cell morphology with pleomorphic hyperchromatic nuclei and yielded differential diagnosis of immature teratoma, teratocarcinoma, chondrosarcoma, MPNST with cartilaginous areas and sarcomatoid carcinoma with cartilaginous area. All the relevant tumor markers namely alpha feto protein (AFP), human chorionic gonadotrophin ( HCG) and lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) levels were within normal limits. Hence after discussion in tumor board, the decision was taken for complete excision of the tumor which was performed via a mini sternotomy.
Intra operatively a large lobulated mass, soft to firm in consistency was seen in the anterior mediastinum extending from the retrosternal region to the region behind left anterior chest wall and was adherent to the pericardium and left pleura posteriorly and appeared to be arising from the intercostal nerve. No enlarged lymph nodes were identified. On gross inspection revealed a greyish white to a greyish brown encapsulated slightly nodular soft tissue mass measuring 18×16×10 cm and weighing 1490