A 66-year-old man presented with bilateral breast bulging. His breasts had slowly become enlarged over a number of years and this had led to huge breast bulging; the patient reported that he was ashamed of his breast disfigurement when in public baths and swimming pools. He had undergone an excisional biopsy of a mass in the central upper back region 1 year earlier, which revealed a lipoma.
He reported more than 25 years of alcohol abuse, and confirmed that he consumed alcohol 5 times a week. Furthermore, he had a history of cigarette use, but had stopped smoking 4 years previously. He also had a 10-year history of hypertension and diabetes mellitus. The patient's father had a history of multiple large disfiguring masses in the neck and upper body.
Physical examination of the patient revealed multiple large, disfiguring masses in the occipital region as well as on the breasts, upper arms, shoulders, neck, and upper trunk. These appeared to be symmetrical on the breasts, upper arms, and shoulders. Palpation revealed that the masses had an elastic consistency, could be moved without causing the patient any pain, and had no definite margins ().
Laboratory examinations revealed normal liver and thyroid function, and a hormone assay confirmed that the results were within the normal ranges. A mammography was performed which revealed that the patient's breasts were comprised almost entirely of fat. Breast ultrasonography revealed excessively fatty breasts without any definite glandular tissue (). Computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging showed diffuse and marked fatty deposits in the superficial soft tissue layers of the neck, chest, abdomen, and shoulder wall with marked bulging contours of both breasts ().
The patient underwent bilateral nipple-sparing mastectomy with nipple interposition. Pathology revealed soft tissue lipomas measuring 30×17×5 cm and 27×16×5 cm, and both lipomas were homogenous without hemorrhage and necrosis (, ). No hidden malignancy was found.