A 53-year-old Korean man presented with gingival swelling and multiple small nodules of the right maxilla that involved the buccal attached gingiva from the canine to the second molar. The enlarged gingival surface was pebbly and white or slightly reddish, without hemorrhage or ulceration (). He also had a small mucosal alteration on the lingual gingiva of the left mandibular first molar, similar to the upper lesion (). These had first been noticed one month earlier, and the dentist referred him to our dental hospital.
Panoramic radiograph revealed nothing but generalized alveolar bone loss and a periapical radiolucency of the right maxillary lateral incisor (). He had received prosthetic treatments in the right upper molar area 13 months ago and in the left lower molar area 7 months ago. Since the lesions had developed several months ago, both had slowly enlarged. Routine laboratory parameters with immune parameters, such as B cells, T cells, CD4+, CD8+ and IgE, were normal. The patient was generally healthy and was not a smoker. For a clinical differential diagnosis with arteriovenous malformation (AVM), squamous papilloma and verrucous cancer, an excisional biopsy was performed under local anesthesia. There was no severe bleeding, and no alveolar bone destruction. One week after the removal of the periodontal dressing materials of Coe-Pak®(GC Co., Tokyo, Japan), the denuded alveolar bone healed secondarily.
Under the approval by Institutional Review Board of Seoul National University Dental Hospital, the removed specimen was fixed in 10% neutral formalin, embedded in paraffin, and sectioned into 4 µm thicknesses. Microsections were stained with hematoxylin and eosin, followed by immunohistochemical staining using antibodies targeting Ki-67 and p53 with an indirect triple sandwich method. Upon microscopic examination, the excised mucosa was proliferating in a papillary pattern with acanthosis. Rete ridges were widened and elongated but were not psoriasiform (). Chronic mild inflammation was also observed. There were a