A 52-year-old female ex-smoker was admitted for elective left delayed breast reconstruction with a free tissue transfer. She had previously undergone a left mastectomy with axillary node sampling and adjuvant chemotherapy for a multifocal invasive grade two lobular breast cancer with a Nottingham prognostic indicator of 3.64. The tumour excision was complete with no histological evidence of vascular invasion nor was there tumour evident on any of the four nodes sampled. It was weakly estrogen receptor positive and strongly progesterone receptor positive but human epidermal growth factor receptor-2 negative. As this is not a typical feature of lobular carcinoma, the patient received six cycles of adjuvant chemotherapy to reduce her risk of disease recurrence in addition to hormonal treatment with anastrozole. Her past medical history included familial hypercholesterolaemia and transient ischaemic attack for which she was anticoagulated with aspirin, discontinued 10 days prior to surgery.
The transverse rectus abdominis myocutaneous flap was raised on the left deep inferior epigastric vessels. The IMA and vein were exposed at the level of the 3rd intercostal space without dissection of the costal cartilage rib exposing a good calibre size on each vessel. The internal mammary vessels were divided, and the proximal end of each used as the recipient vessel to establish antegrade flow. Of note, the arterial vessel wall was thin, and there was also some bruising in the adventitia. End-to-end anastomosis was carried out as a routine with a 9-0-nylon suture. The IMA wall was found to be extremely friable and kept tearing. Proximal costal cartilage was removed to get more exposure and length. However the vessel adventitia was damaged and the wall was very thin at this level as well. A further three attempts at anastomosis did not result in a successful flow. The proximal IMA was shortened and a further attempt at anastomosis undertaken; however, the adventitia was again found to be soft and easily friable. The thoracodorsal axis was explored including the ser