A 42-year-old male reported to our Department of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery in 2011, with the chief complaint of obvious facial asymmetry, which was gradually increasing from past 2 years []. He recounted the history of developing a progressive derangement in occlusion. He presented with clicks and mild pain in the right TMJ region.
He gave no history of facial trauma and had not noted any paresthesia. The patient's medical and family histories were noncontributory. Social history was negative for smoking, alcohol or drug abuse. His systemic review and general condition were normal.
Maxillofacial examination revealed bony hard right preauricular swelling that moved with condylar translation. The skin overlying the swelling was normal in appearance with no signs of erythema or ulcerations. The external auditory canal was patent on the right side, with normal tympanic membranes. The auriculotemporal nerve was intact with no signs of paresthesia. There was obvious deviation present, while opening the mouth. The maximum interincisal opening was 34 mm. Clicking was present on the right TMJ. There was no palpable lymphadenopathy.
On intraoral examination, there was a 10 mm shift from the midline toward the left []. Right side open bite and left side cross bite was present due to overgrowth of right mandibular condyle.
The orthopantomogram (OPG) showed a right sided enlarged condyle of the mandible []. The computed tomography scan confirmed the right sided mass and also helped to rule out any intracranial extension of the same [].
The clinical and radiological presumptive diagnosis was made to be a slow growing neoplasm of the condyle. Local excision of the lesion was planned under general anesthesia through the right preauricular approach.
Preoperative routine investigations were within normal range. A standard preauricular incision was taken to expose the right condyle of the mandible []. Condylectomy of the right side was performed []. Local excision of the surrounding soft tissue was