A 67-year-old woman was admitted to our department at Samsung Medical Center under the suspicion of a large hepatic tumor. Her main symptom was nausea. Abdominal ultrasonography had revealed a huge mass measuring 9 cm in diameter in the liver before admission. An ultrasonography-guided fine-needle aspiration of the liver was performed at our hospital, and a pathological examination of a specimen demonstrated a poorly differentiated carcinoma. She did not have a history of operation, smoking, or alcohol use. The patient had no symptoms of hormonal dysfunction, and the laboratory tests did not reveal any liver dysfunction. The physical examination revealed palpable abdominal mass in right upper quadrant. Laboratory data, including liver function tests, were within the normal limits. The serum α-fetoprotein, PIVKA-2, carcinoembryonic antigen, and carbohydrate antigen 19-9 levels were within the normal range. She was negative for hepatitis B antigen and anti-hepatitis C virus antibodies. No endocrine studies were performed.
Computed tomography (CT) demonstrated a well enhanced mass measuring 9 cm in size in Couinaud's hepatic segments 4, 5, and 8. The mass showed heterogeneous arterial enhancement and washout of the tumor. The large tumor had round shape, but not invaded the hepatic vessels (). Lymphadenopathy around common hepatic artery was shown in the images. There was no evidence of liver cirrhosis. Upper and lower gastrointestinal endoscopy showed no suspicious malignant lesions.
Although the patient's tumor was located in central portion of the liver, in contact with the hilum and gallbladder, extrahepatic disease was not identified in the radiologic examinations and the patient's hepatic reserve and general condition were tolerable. Central hepatectomy and cholecystectomy were performed and lymph node dissection around hepatoduodenal ligatments was also performed. The length of the surgery was 248 minutes and blood loss during the procedure was 200 ml. The patient's postoperative course was uneventful, and she was discharged on the 15th postoperative day. Currently, she is in tolerable condition without recurrence at 3 months after