Patient is a 68-year-old female who presented to the emergency room after a fall while walking her dog with complaints of headaches, nausea, and vomiting. Patient denied any loss of consciousness. Her past medical history consisted of hypertension and peripheral vascular disease. Patient smoked one pack of cigarette per day. On physical examination, she had no focal neurological deficits but was confused. Computed tomography (CT) scan showed a large left 1 cm convexity acute subdural hematoma (SDH) with 6 mm midline shift. Due to her disorientation and midline shift, the patient was taken back to the operating room (OR) for evacuation of the SDH. A reverse question mark incision was made with a standard trauma craniotomy. During the operation, the superficial temporal artery (STA) was mistakenly sacrificed. Patient tolerated the surgery well and continued to improve with her mental status postoperatively. She was discharged to rehab on postoperative day 7. The patient continued to smoke despite our recommendations.
She returned to the emergency room 19 days later complaining of fever, erythema, swelling underneath the wound, and purulent drainage on her pillow. The radiographic findings suggested that the infection was superficial. After being evaluated in the emergency department, she was taken to the OR for surgical lavage and debridement. During the operating, her bone flap was felt to be viable and free of infection, so it was not removed. Intraoperative cultures were found to grow methicillin-sensitive Staphylococcus aureus, and the patient was started on IV Nafcillin. Approximately 2 weeks later, purulent drainage returned from the incision site. Radiographic findings suggested that there was an intracranial component. She was taken to the OR for a wound washout. Given the degree of infection identified during the operation, as well as the intracranial infection noted in the subdural space, the decision was made to remove the bone flap.
Over the next week, the wound started to break down. Subsequently, there was a wedge-shaped necrosis that developed on the