A previously asymptomatic, 55-year-old diabetic female, came to our emergency with sudden onset of inability to maintain posture and impaired co-ordination in body movements for 8 h. She had difficulty in sitting upright from lying down posture and was unable to walk without support. Patient also faced difficulty in reaching objects around her. These complaints were worst at the time of onset and had slightly improved upon presentation. Patient was a known diabetic for 10 years on glibenclamide therapy at a dose of 5 mg once daily. Her glycemic status was unknown at presentation. She was not previously diagnosed or treated for hypertension, coronary artery disease, and valvular heart disease. She had no history of smoking, alcohol, or any substance abuse. On examination, the patient was conscious, alert, and afebrile with pulse rate of 108/min without any irregularity or asymmetry. There was no carotid bruit. Her blood pressure was 110/70 mmHg without any postural drop. Respiratory rate was 16/min. Patients cardiac, respiratory, and abdominal examinations were within normal limits. Her Glasgow coma scale score was 15/15. Her higher mental functions were normal with no meningeal signs. Her pupils were equal and reactive without any nystagmus. Cranial nerve, motor, and sensory examinations were normal. Patient demonstrated dysmetria on the left side in the form of past pointing on finger-nose testing and abnormal heel knee-shin test. Her gait was slow, broad based and she was able to take few steps only without support. Patient had abnormal rapid alternating movements when performed by using left hand. A provisional diagnosis of cerebellar stroke was made and a MRI of brain was requested. At this stage, bedside blood glucose was measured and it was 41 mg/dl. She was given 50 ml of 50% dextrose followed by an infusion of 10% dextrose before being shifted for imaging. On re-examination after 20 min of dextrose administration, there was complete resolution of cerebellar signs previously noted at presentation. Her repeat blood glucose was