A 59-year-old Korean man had a medical examination for healthy check-up in December of 2012. An abnormal mass-like lesion in the right hilum was incidentally detected on chest X-ray without any symptom. He was referred to our center for further evaluation.
The patient has hypertension, diabetes mellitus and a history of angina. He visited the division of cardiology of our hospital in March of 2010, and was diagnosed with angina and hypertension. A cardiac angio computed tomography (CT) scan performed at that time detected a 2.5-cm diameter, minimally enhanced mass in the right hilar area (). Since then, he failed to return and was lost to follow up. The patient had a 40 pack-year cigarette smoking history and a family history of stomach cancer. On this admission, the physical examination was unremarkable. The blood examination showed eosinophilia (eosinophil 18.5%, 1,750/µL) and the rest of the laboratory tests including serum tumor markers (carcinoembryonic antigen, cancer antigen 19-9, alpha-fetoprotein, and prostate specific antigen), viral markers (hepatitis virus and human immunodeficiency virus), and autoimmune antibody titers were all within normal range. Examination for parasites was also negative.
A chest CT scan showed a 2.5-cm diameter mass in the right hilum that changed little in terms of size since 2010 (). A primary lesion was not found in the lung parenchyma. The torso fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) positron emission tomography identified an abnormal FDG uptake in this right hilar mass, but no other pathologic hypermetabolic lesion was seen that may indicate a primary site. Bronchoscopy revealed mild bronchial wall thickening at the right upper lobe and right middle lobe opening but no endobronchial lesion was present. A biopsy of the bronchial wall thickening was done and histologic examination showed chronic nonspecific inflammation with squamous metaplasia. No abnormal finding was seen on the cytologic exam in the bronchial washing specimen. Endobronchial ultrasound guided transbronchial needle aspiration from