The patient was an 81-year-old man with asymptomatic macroscopic hematuria. His performance status was grade 1, and he had no occupational exposure to chemical agents. He had stage 3 chronic obstructive pulmonary disease caused by smoking over 40 years and a history of aortic aneurysm repair. He was diagnosed as having bladder cancer by cystoscopic examination and was referred. Computed tomography (CT) showed thickening and irregularity of the whole bladder, with left external iliac lymph node metastasis (fig. ). The clinical stage was diagnosed as T3N1M0 based on the UICC classification. To make a pathological diagnosis and reduce the mass of the tumor, transurethral resection of the bladder tumor (TURBT) was performed, and the tumor, including the deep muscle layer, was resected. The inside of the bladder, from the triangular area to the posterior wall, was filled with a tumor, approximately 4.0 × 4.5 cm, that bled easily. On microscopic examination, the tumor was composed predominantly of undifferentiated malignant cells, with sheets and nests arranged in a syncytial pattern, as well as an urothelial carcinoma lesion. The tumor was also accompanied by a prominent lymphoid reaction consisting of mature lymphoidocytes and plasma cells, which invaded into the muscle layer. On immunohistochemical studies, undifferentiated tumor cells were positively stained by epithelial markers (cytokeratin AE1/AE3, CAM5.2, and cytokeratin 7). The infiltrating lymphocytes were stained by CD3 and CD20 (fig. ). The pathological diagnosis was focal-type LELC containing a component of urothelial carcinoma G3>G2, infiltrative-type. Urine cytology was found to be positive 1 month after TURBT treatment. His general condition was such that it was felt that he would not be able to tolerate radical cystectomy or systemic chemotherapy because of his advanced age and his history of severe chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and aortic aneurysm repair. Therefore, external beam radiotherapy was selected as a less invasive treatment. A total dose of 60 Gy was irradiated