A 42-year-old smoker female patient came to the Dental School complaining of facial pain and a poor appearance of her teeth. Based in a visual analogue scale (VAS), the patient classified herself as having level 7 of orofacial pain. In addition, patient reported to suck lemon and eat spicy food daily. During clinical examination, good oral hygiene could be noted. The patient showed extreme corrosion of occlusal surfaces of the maxillary posterior teeth and the palatal surfaces of the maxillary anterior teeth (). Anterior teeth presented extensive composite resin restorations, worn incisal edges with loss of restoration/enamel gloss at labial surfaces (), which is a characteristic appearance of exogenous corrosion. On the palatal surfaces, it was noted loss of enamel with smooth and shiny appearance, and worn incisal surfaces, suggesting bruxism activity. Posterior amalgam restorations were salient and fractured, being almost out of the teeth they were inserted in the past, due to enamel corrosion ( and ). Mandibular teeth did not have important alterations at that moment, but the patient had already installed 3-element posterior fixed metal-ceramic prosthesis, full crows, one indirect partial metallic restoration, satisfactory amalgam restorations, and had no worn teeth ().
Based on clinical interview and clinical examination, worn teeth were related to the association among bruxism, perimolysis and exogenous corrosion by food habits. The patient's occlusion was clinically evaluated and it was found a decreased vertical dimension, secondary to bruxism and enamel erosion. The decreased vertical dimension and the absence of anterior and lateral guides seemed to be associated with muscular pain and difficult mandibular movements.
After determining the etiologic factors, a multiphase treatment was proposed. Firstly, the patient was asked to settle an appointment with a gastroenterologist. Concomitantly, she was warned about her general and dental health, receiving nutritional instructions and counseling and information on the importance of reducing the smoking habit. In the second phase,