A 17-year-old male patient attended the oral and maxillofacial surgery clinic in King Saud University requesting extraction of all third molars. The patient’s medical history was unremarkable; he was a non-smoker and revealed no history of previous facial trauma or surgery. There was neither pain nor swelling of the buccal and lingual sulci of the mandible and no cervical lymphadenopathy. Initial dental examination revealed a minimally restored permanent dentition with good oral hygiene. A panoramic radiograph showed that all third molars were present and impacted except on the upper right side where the tooth was missing, with the lower third molars in close proximity to the inferior alveolar canals (Figure ). The radiograph was otherwise unremarkable with no signs of pathology or abnormality.
A CBCT of the mandible was requested for further assessment of the relation and proximity of the roots to the inferior alveolar canal. A survey of the CBCT sections of the mandibular body revealed bilateral sublingual depressions inferior to the premolars and first molars extending to the inferior border of the mandible that was not seen on the panoramic radiograph.
To assess the depth and width of these depressions, the CBCT images were reconstructed in planes aligned with the axes of the right and left mandibular second premolars in the mesiodistal dimension, buccolingual dimension, and the coronoapical dimension. Then, linear measurements representing the width of the depressions were made along a line drawn a tangent to the heights of contours (crest of curvatures) of the lingual surfaces of the mandible superior and inferior to the bilateral depression. The superoinferior width of the depressions was found to be 2.1 cm on the right side and 2.9 cm on the left side. Linear measurements representing the buccolingual depth of the depressions were made along a line drawn perpendicular to the above-mentioned width line to the deepest point of the depression; it measured 0.59 cm on the left side and 0.6 cm on the right