The patient was a 63-year-old woman who was seen by a local physician for pain in the epigastric region that started back in December 2006. An abdominal CT scan revealed pancreatic cystic lesions and pancreatic duct dilatation, and the patient was referred to our hospital for further examination on December 27. The patient had a history of hyperlipidemia for which she was being treated, but no history of pancreatitis or abdominal trauma, and no notable family history. The patient did not smoke or drink alcohol. Examination results on admission were as follows: height, 157 cm, weight, 40 kg, and body temperature 37.2°C. The patient was alert and her abdomen was soft and flat with no palpable masses. The patient had tenderness in the epigastrium but no rebound or guarding.
Her blood chemistry revealed a slight elevation of the pancreatic enzymes amylase and elastase 1. While no other evidence of inflammation could suggest active pancreatitis, a slight elevation of the tumor marker CA19-9 was detected.
Abdominal ultrasonography (US) revealed a multilocular cystic lesion of 45 mm in length with node-like projections in the body of the pancreas. The main pancreatic duct was noticeably dilated from the body to the tail. The pancreatic parenchyma was overall atrophic, and her echogenicity was moderate. Comorbidity with chronic pancreatitis was suspected. An abdominal CT revealed a cystic lesion with a relatively thick septum-like structure in the body of the pancreas. A solid component with slight contrast enhancement was noted inside the cyst. Magnetic resonance cholangiopancreatography revealed a multilocular cystic lesion in the body of the pancreas, and continuity with the main pancreatic duct that was slightly dilated more distally was suspected (fig. ). Endoscopic US revealed a multilocular cystic lesion (26 mm long) in the body of the pancreas. A dilated main pancreatic duct communicating with this lesion was noted. There were extensive node-like raised lesions with papillary development from the cyst to the main pancreatic duct. Like the findings of US, the pancreatic parenchyma