A 48-year-old woman presented with a one-month history of cough. She had no complaints of sputum, chest pain, or dyspnea, but she had a suspicious history of hemoptysis. She had never smoked. She had a dog in her childhood and she also lived in the rural area. Her physical examination was normal. No abnormal signs were observed on her chest radiograph. Pulmonary function tests and laboratory test results were within normal limits except for eosinophilia and minimally elevated D-dimer in the blood test. D-dimer level of the patient was 600 ng/mL, while normal limits are 0-500. A negative D-dimer result may exclude pulmonary embolism, but there are many reasons that cause D-dimer elevation such as infection, trauma, deep venous thrombosis, and disseminated intravascular coagulation. In this case, the reason of elevated D-dimer was parasitic infection. The patient was treated with 250-mg fluticasone dry powder twice daily in an inhaler and montelukast once daily under a suspicious diagnosis of allergic asthma; she asked for a control examination 2 weeks later. At the control examination, she still complained of coughing. Thoracic computed tomography (CT) was performed to investigate the etiology of cough and her minimally elevated D-dimer level. Filling defects were observed inside the left main pulmonary artery, upper segmental branch of the lingular artery, and segmental and subsegmental branches of the lower lobe artery on her thoracic CT angiogram (-). This finding at the main and superior branch of the lingular artery showed continuity with an 18 × 16 mm nodular opacity considered likely to be a cystic embolism. The right pulmonary artery and its branches were clear. Subcutaneous low-molecular-weight heparin anticoagulant therapy was administered on the basis of the suspicious diagnosis of pulmonary thromboembolism. Left and right ventricular parameters on echocardiographic evaluation were normal. Systolic pulmonary artery pressure was 25 mm Hg. No intracardiac thrombi, or any thrombosis in the deep veins of the lower extremities were observed. Clinical