A 47-year-old heavy smoker, otherwise healthy male, presented with 3 weeks of gallstone pain. After a couple of admissions where the patient was treated with a non-selective COX inhibitor (Todolac 600 mg daily) for ∼2 weeks, he was scheduled to outpatient laparoscopic cholecystectomy.
Dissection of gallbladder was complicated by blood oozing from the liver. It was treated successfully, and haemostasis established. A drain was placed to monitor further bleeding episodes. The drain was removed on the second postoperative day as the output was negligible. Treatment for postoperative pain included 10 mg morphine tablet on need with a maximum dose of six times, Paracetamol tablet 1000 mg four times per day and Ibuprofen 400 mg three times per day.
On the evening of the second postoperative day, the patient complained of increasing diffuse pain. Vital signs were normal and stable. Blood tests were normal. He was observed overnight, and the following morning the situation worsened with rebound tenderness and rigid abdomen. The situation was rapidly deteriorating, thus an immediate surgical intervention was indicated without diagnostic imaging. An emergency diagnostic laparoscopy revealed a diffuse peritonitis due to perforation of a diverticulum in colon sigmoidium. The abdomen was irrigated, and two drains were placed in both the right and left sides according to the department's guidelines. The following day, a leakage around the drains was noted, and a brilliant blue was given. A blue-coloured output in the drains confirmed the suspicion of perforation. The patient's condition was deteriorating, necessitating a new diagnostic laparoscopy that showed massive intraperitoneal fibrin plagues and terminal ileum adherent to the pelvis most probably due to the inflammation of the re-perforated colon sigmoideum. Resection of the diverticulosis-bearing segment in colon sigmoidium ad modum Hartmann was performed, and the patient was treated with broad-spectrum antibiotics. The postoperative course was uneventful and the patient was discharged on fifth postoperative day, after the third operation.