A 25-year-old male was admitted to our emergency department due to painful swelling in his left forearm. He experienced a slip down injury while walking. Simple radiograph revealed both radius and ulna fractures in proximal shaft (). His medical history was unremarkable. He had a history of motorcycle trauma which led to fractures to distal shaft of right radius and left distal humerus 5 years ago. He underwent an operation for open reduction and internal fixation on both fracture sites at our institution, and they healed without any complication. Second operation was performed to remove plates and screws 15 months after the surgery, and postoperative recovery was uneventful. Initial laboratory examinations revealed no abnormal findings. To treat his ulnar fracture, open reduction and internal fixation was chosen, and radial fracture was stabilized with a Khai nail under closed reduction. Postoperative radiography showed stable fixation for both bones ().
Postoperative recovery progressed without a problem. However, postoperative review of the radiographs raised a suspicion of mild demineralization (). In addition, the minor traumatic nature of his slip down accident coupled with a fracture history led to a concern about fragility of his bone. We recommended bone densitometry to evaluate his bone quality, and the examination disclosed osteopenia in the spine (Z score=-2.3) and femoral neck (Z score =-1.3). To find the cause of his osteopenic condition, further laboratory evaluations were made, and his medical and personal histories were questioned and reviewed.
Initial laboratory examinations showed slight increase only in serum liver transferases. Nonetheless the results were insignificant to suspect a condition such as hyperthyroidism, Cushing syndrome, myeloma or osteomalacia that is associated with decreased bone mass. The patient did not have smoking, alcoholic or drug use history, and the review of his past medical history was insignificant. However, during an interview with his family his sister commented about the patient's slow performance as a child, and recently she had noticed progressively more sluggish and slower behavior of the patient. When further questions were