A 65-year-old male was admitted to the emergency department with acute shortness of breath and chest discomfort. The symptoms were gradually progressive over the past few days. He had an episode of acute upper respiratory infection in the past week and was on decongestants for symptoms of cold and congestion. The patient tested negative for influenza A and B. He had a significant medical history of mitral valve prolapse, benign prostatic hyperplasia, and hernia repair. He had no significant history of smoking, alcohol or drug abuse. Upon examination, the patient’s vitals were within normal limits. The patient was not overweight and had a bodyweight of 72 kg. The jugular venous pressure was normal. The heart rate was regular and in normal sinus rhythm. A soft ejection systolic heart murmur was present. The breath sounds were present and were equal on both sides of the chest.
The lab results were significant for brain natriuretic peptide (BNP) levels elevated up to 407 pg/ml (normal up to 100 pg/ml), normocytic normochromic anemia, leukocytosis with increased neutrophils, and mild thrombocytopenia consistent with bacterial pneumonia. However, blood cultures were negative, likely due to empiric antibiotic treatment. The BNP levels returned to normal after the valve replacement.
The electrocardiogram (ECG) showed normal sinus rhythm with premature atrial contractions, prolonged QT interval, and ST depression followed by subsequent elevation in the lateral leads. No arrhythmias were present. The chest X-ray showed bilateral interstitial infiltrates. The computed tomographic angiogram (CTA) of the chest showed diffuse bilateral airspace opacities, consistent with multifocal pneumonia (Figure ). Small bilateral pleural effusions were present.
No aortic aneurysm was seen. Pulmonary embolism was ruled out. There was borderline pulmonary artery enlargement reflecting a degree of pulmonary artery hypertension. A potential right renal parapelvic cyst was identified. The patient was admitted for treatment and further testing. The treatment for bilateral pneumonia was started with oxygen through high flow nasal cannula and antibiotics including ceftriaxone and azithromycin.