A 55-year-old Caucasian male was referred from another clinical department as he had undergone a routine chest radiograph that revealed multiple mediastinal and diaphragmatic nodules, raising concern over possible malignancy. The patient was employed as a Chemical Engineer at various chemical plants and exposed to a large array of chemical fumes, including arsenic. He was a smoker until 1 year before presentation and was previously exposed to asbestos related to his occupation as engineer in the mining and construction industry. His surgical history included abdominal gunshot wounds suffered in the 1970s while he was enrolled in military service, one which led to an emergency splenectomy. His medical history included admission for severe malaria in the mid-1980s, which required admission to an intensive care unit.
The absence of Howell–Jolly bodies on the peripheral blood smear at presentation (Fig. , left) was a possible clue to the presence of ectopic splenosis as their presence would be expected in a fully splenectomized patient. A CT scan of the chest (Fig. ) was requested without contrast due to impaired baseline renal function. This revealed pleural plaque formation, as well as enlarged mediastinal lymph nodes together with multiple pleural- and mediastinal-based soft tissue nodules. Some of these nodules were calcified. Basal ground-glass opacification was also noted. Differential diagnosis of these lesions includes both primary and metastatic malignancies (e.g. malignant mesothelioma, lymphoma and metastatic adenocarcinoma) as well as non-malignant tumours (e.g. lipoma) and various infectious and non-infectious causes (e.g. asbestosis and sarcoidosis). Granulomatous infection due to M. tuberculosis was an important consideration as South Africa is a country burdened by a very high prevalence of disease due to this pathogen. Due to his increased occupational exposure asbestosis was a possibility and this would also explain the early ground-glass opacification. Sarcoidosis was considered, although no systemic or extra-pulmonary manifestations were present. The inability to perform a contrasted CT