A 62-year-old woman with good past health with no previous neurological symptom was admitted to the Prince of Wales Hospital in Hong Kong after a sudden onset of left upper limb and lower limb weakness along with unsteady gait and numbness. Examination upon admission revealed brisk reflexes over both lower limbs, reduced pinprick sensation with a sensory level at T3 over left side. Her blood pressure was 141/74 mmHg with no history of smoking, hypertension, diabetes or dyslipidemia. An MRI scan of the whole spine showed extensive intramedullary hyperintense signals at C2 to T3 levels; most discrete at the T2 level. On the other hand, no lesions were found on the MRI of the brain. The severity of the spinal lesions and lack of brain lesions prompted an immunological investigation. The patient tested positive for anti-aquaporin-4 antibody and anti-SSA antibody using immunofluorescent test which confirms the diagnosis of NMO. In addition, her rheumatoid factor and antinuclear antibody were both negative; and there were no clinical features of keratoconjunctivitis sicca or dry month suggestive of Sjogren's syndrome.
A magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) scan of the brain revealed a bilateral distal occlusion of the internal carotid arteries. Occlusions of the MCA were noted with fine collaterals in the region—reminiscent of moyamoya vessels. The ICAs and ACA were preserved; and the CCAs were normal without atherosclerotic changes. She was diagnosed with moyamoya disease as well (Fig. ).
Despite treatment, leg weakness showed no significant improvement and further deterioration of leg power was witnessed with the left leg deteriorating more than the right. Intravenous methylprednisolone 1 g daily was given for 3 days. Afterwards, she was transferred to rehabilitation after 19 days in hospital with oral prescription of 30 mg of prednisolone daily together with azathioprine 50 mg daily. On follow-up 1 month later, she had suboptimal recovery with lower limb power remained