A 58-year-old man was admitted to our Hospitalist Services for medical management of acute small bowel obstruction, which improved. Subsequently, the patient developed diffuse body aches, generalized weakness, and was noted to have a cough with blood-tinged sputum. The Pulmonary Service was consulted for evaluation of this new onset of hemoptysis. His past medical history was significant for underlying diabetes mellitus managed on oral hypoglycemics, end-stage renal disease on hemodialysis, systemic hypertension, Hepatitis C with associated vasculitis, for which he was on chronic oral steroid therapy. He denied any oral or intravenous substance abuse, tobacco smoking or alcohol use.
Our initial physical assessment revealed normal vital signs without any obvious respiratory distress. His pulse oximetry showed 98% saturation on room air. His eyes were anicteric and neck was supple with no jugular venous distention. Chest auscultation was unremarkable for any extra cardiac or respiratory sounds. The abdominal examination was significant for mild distention with normal bowel sounds. The neurological exam was abnormal and revealed decreased muscle strength throughout, with intact sensations and normal deep tendon reflexes.
A review of laboratory investigations revealed mild leukocytosis without leftward shift or bandemia. The serum chemistry showed an elevated serum creatinine level and a normal serum bicarbonate level as well as mildly elevated liver enzymes (AST- 110 IU/L, ALT- 42 IU/L and ALP-IU/L, a low albumin level, and normal bilirubin level). A room air arterial blood gas was obtained, which revealed no metabolic or respiratory abnormality. A chest radiograph showed a patchy infiltrate in the right lower lung. A computed tomogram (CT) of the chest, without contrast study, was obtained, which showed a 3.3 centimeter (cm) ×3.3 cm right hilar mass scattered bilateral pleural nodules, and bilateral pleural effusions []. A short interval repeat CT chest with contrast was done to evaluate this mass. This repeat study showed a significant increase in the hilar mass