A 50-year-old male patient, a known case of COPD, presented with the features of BPF on the right side for 1 month. The patient was a chronic smoker and did not give any history suggestive of pulmonary Koch's or any other associated disease apart from COPD. The patient had sudden-onset breathlessness and chest pain 1 month before, which was diagnosed as spontaneous pneumothorax, and an intercostal drain was inserted but even after 1 month of all conservative measures, the lung remained collapsed [] and there was a large air leak in the intercostal drain; negative suction on the intercostal drain was also not effective. Bronchoscopic closure of the BPF was also attempted but was not successful. CT chest revealed collapsed and entrapped lung [Figure and ], with surgical emphysema of the subcutaneous tissues due to rupture of the emphysematous bullae on the right side along with presence of emphysematous bullae on the left upper lobe. Surgical repair was planned as with all the conservative measures, the lung remained collapsed and the air leak persisted. The patient was emaciated and weak and was pre-operatively optimized with a high-protein diet, multivitamins, bronchodilators, incentive spirometry and antibiotics for another week before surgery. General anesthesia was given using double-lumen endotracheal tube and supplemented with thoracic epidural analgesia and invasive arterial pressure and central venous pressure monitoring were also performed. The right posterolateral approach was chosen, intercostal muscle flap was harvested and part of the fifth rib was resected. The lung was found completely entrapped in a fibrous peel [] and decortication of the thickened visceral peel was performed from the entire right lung [] and inferior pulmonary ligament was also ligated and divided. The site of the BPF was localized in the segmental bronchus to apical segment of the right upper lobe and closure of the fistula with polypropylene 4’0’ sutures was performed and reinforced with intercostal pedicled muscle flap []. There were multiple small unrup