A 55-year-old Caucasian female presented with productive cough, dyspnea, chest pain and weight loss. The patient's medical history was significant for hypertension, hypercholesterolemia, dyslipidemia, chronic renal failure, gastroesophageal reflux disease and chronic anemia. She was a 30 pack-year smoker and her mother was diagnosed with lung cancer. Her physical examination was unremarkable. An initial chest X-ray showed a large subcarinal mass. On computed tomography (CT), a 6.2 × 5 cm tumor was detected in the subcarinal area (Figs and ). A bronchoscopy with transbronchial biopsy was performed, and the resulting pathological analysis was suspicious for malignant cells; however, no specific tumor type was identified. A positron emission tomography scan showed a large hypermetabolic subcarinal lesion with a standard uptake value of 14.3, consistent with malignancy. The differential diagnosis at the time included an infected bronchogenic cyst, esophageal duplication cyst or a malignant subcarinal lymph node. Thoracoscopic surgical resection was planned for diagnostic and therapeutic purposes.
Prior to surgical resection, esophagoscopy and bronchoscopy documented the absence of any communication of this mass to the esophagus and airway. The resection was completed thoracoscopically, with a five-port approach. One port was made at the mid-axillary line of the eighth intercostal space for the camera, in addition to two anterior and two posterior ports. The dissection of the tumor began at the level of the inferior pulmonary ligament and posterior mediastinum, all the way to the azygous vein. The esophagus was found completely adherent to the tumor, necessitating an esophageal myotomy for en bloc resection. The esophageal mucosa was not violated at any point throughout the procedure. The anterior dissection proceeded at the level of the posterior atrial wall, the inferior and superior pulmonary veins, the main trunk of the pulmonary artery, and the membranous areas of the right and left main stem bronchi. Complete gross resection was observed at the conclusion of the operation. At