A 44-year-old man experienced sudden onset of pain in the left leg that decreased gradually. He was admitted to the hospital 1 week after an ulceration occurred on the left toe. Examination of the left lower extremity revealed a cold foot that was pale and without palpable pulse. Clinically, he was believed to have a threatened limb, but not irreversible ischemia (class III in the Rutherford classification of acute ischemia). Detailed medical history of the patient also revealed intermittent claudication for the last 2 years. He was a 1.5-pack-a-year smoker for 25 years. Color Doppler ultrasonography revealed occlusion of the distal segment of the left superficial femoral artery and the popliteal artery. There was monophasic dampened flow in both distal leg vessels. Then, revascularization of the presumably chronic thromboembolic occlusion of the the left superficial feromaral artery (SFA) and popliteal artery was planned to be performed in antegrade route via the ipsilateral common femoral artery (CFA). The patient agreed to undergo the procedure. The procedure was explained to the patient, and written informed consent was obtained. The procedure was performed in the angiography suite. The patient was placed under conscious sedoanalgesia with dormicum and fentanyl, and was monitored. After placing a 6F vascular sheath into the femoral artery, heparin was administered at a dose of 5000 IU. An angiogram obtained via the sheath revealed an abrubt thromboembolic occlusion of the distal SFA and the popliteal arteries. The trifucation arteries were occluded and, unexpectedly, the typical “corkscrew collateral” arteries could be seen in the images diagnostic for TAO []. Though we could get through the thrombus, attempts aiming to get access to leg arteries were unsuccessful despite the application of various guidewires and support catheters. Then, a retrograde approach via dorsalis pedis artery was planned and was achieved with ultrasound-guided micropuncture. The occluded part of the vessel was successfully recanalized by navigating a 0.018