A 15-year-old Caucasian male, accompanied by his parents was admitted to the Department of Diagnosis and Surgery at Araraquara Dental School with chief complaints of swelling in his left side of the face []. No systemic alterations and pain were reported. The patient denied use of alcohol and smoke. Panoramic radiography was brought by the patient and dated 1-year before, in the time wherein underwent surgery for his right third inferior molar removal. In this examination, a radiolucent image of 4 mm was associated to his left third mandibular molar. Clinical examination revealed intra and extra oral swelling, good plaque control, and no periodontal disease.
A new panoramic radiography and a computed tomography (CT) scan were requested to the patient. The panoramic image showed a radiolucent area surrounded by a radiopaque halo around the unerupted third molar, blocking their eruption []. The size of the lesion was increased compared to the first radiographic image. CT scan showed a cavity in the left mandibular body with a partial absence of buccal bone plate and part of the lingual bone wall preserved []. Based on clinical and radiographic features, the diagnosis of a KCOT was suggested, and the treatment possibilities were discussed with the patient and parents.
Initially, an incisional biopsy was performed to confirm the diagnosis. The pathological findings were associated with KCOT and showed fragmented connective tissue, intra-osseous cavity composed mainly by stratified squamous lining with acanthosis and discontinuity of the subjacent connective tissue. In the alveolar bone was observed resorption areas with apposition areas characterized by reversion and/or incremental lines. No signs of malignancy were detected. The patient was informed about the diagnosis, and a minimally invasive surgery to KCOT removal was proposed and accepted by the patient. Written informed consent was obtained prior to initial treatment.
The treatment of the KCOT started with the marsupialization of the lesion by excision of the overlying