A baby girl with bilateral porencephalic cysts was born at 40-week gestation via vaginal birth after caesarian section delivery to a 24-year-old gravida 4 para 4 mother with a history of anemia, prior caesarian section in 2015, and a body mass index of 27. The mother had no past medical history of hypertension, diabetes, deep vein thrombosis, cardiovascular disease, sickle cell disease, or sexually transmitted diseases. The mother denied the use of alcohol, tobacco, or illicit drug use during or before pregnancy, but she did admitted to the use of phentermine while she was pregnant. She reported that she was not aware of her pregnancy until she was at approximately 26-28 weeks of gestation after receiving a urine pregnancy test during a routine medical visit. At that time, she discontinued her phentermine. A urine pregnancy test was not conducted prior to starting phentermine. She was on no other medications prior to or during the pregnancy. All prenatal labs were normal with normal serology. She did not have gestational diabetes, pregnancy-related hypertension, maternal infections, or other maternal complications during the pregnancy. Brain abnormalities were first seen during prenatal ultrasound at 28 weeks of gestation, which demonstrated bilateral enlarged ventricles. Fetal magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) was performed to confirm the findings (Figure ). Delivery was uncomplicated with Apgar scores of 8 and 9 at 1 and 5 minute(s), respectively. Birth weight was 3.37 kilograms, length was 50 centimeters (cm) and head circumference was 36 cm. The patient’s physical examination was significant for increased tone and brisk reflexes in her upper and lower extremities bilaterally. Patient was admitted to the Neonatal Intensive Care Unit for observation and discharged after three days in the hospital. MRI brain at day 1 of life revealed bilateral porencephalic cysts with thinning of the right cerebral cortex and absence of a significant region of the left cerebral cortex. Occipital lobes were dysplastic bilaterally (Figure ). These