A 70-year-old man with a history of smoking, hypertension, previous thyroidectomy, and kidney cancer with a single lung metastasis was referred to our institution for a voluminous saccular aneurysm of the aortic arch of 4.8 cm in diameter which was incidentally found during a computed tomography (CT) of the chest performed because of pneumonia. The aneurysm was located just opposite to the origin of the left subclavian artery and it contained a thrombotic plaque and demonstrated thin calcifications of the aortic wall (
).
The patient had an American Society of Anesthesiologists score of 3 and a Society for Vascular Surgery/American Association for Vascular Surgery medical comorbidity score of 5. After a multidisciplinary evaluation, the patient was deemed eligible for branched TEVAR of aortic arch.
Analysis of the preoperative CT scan showed that the saccular aneurysm protruded from the anterolateral aspect of the aortic arch opposite the origin of the left subclavian artery. The proximal seal zone in ascending aorta was 40 ± 2 mm, the aneurysmal length was 70 mm and distal seal zone in descending aorta was 31 mm and >25 mm in length (
). The CT also demonstrated a short common bovine trunk, which required two branches for innominate artery and left common carotid artery (CCA) (
).
The ascending aorta and the femoral and iliac arteries were normally sized.
The procedure was performed in our angiographic interventional suite.
Both common carotids and the right femoral artery were surgically exposed through bilateral cervical incisions and right inguinal incision, respectively. The left femoral artery was utilized for percutaneous access. A transvenous pacing lead was easily introduced through the common femoral vein to ensure cardiac output reduction during graft deployment.
A customized Bolton Relay NBS (Non-Bare Stent) Plus (Bolton Medical Inc. Sunrise, FL and Barcelona, Spain) endovascular prosthesis (dimension 46–36 × 270 mm, according to preoperative CT scan data) was inserted over a curly