A 19-year-old Caucasian female patient without significant medical history presented to the emergency room with symptoms of dizziness, headache and emesis. She denied any smoking or alcohol history. She denied any history of head trauma or bleeding diathesis. Family history was positive for breast cancer and lymphoma in maternal grandmother, but no reported history of thyroid malignancy. Her Glasgow coma scale score was 15. On neurological examination, motor strength was five over five in all extremities. Cranial nerves II to XII were intact. Sensations to touch and pain were intact. Finger to nose test was normal and there was no ataxia. Complete blood count and liver function tests were within a normal range.
CT head [] revealed acute intraparenchymal hematoma in the right cingulate gyrus and the splenium of the corpus callosum measuring 4.1 × 3.4 cm in size, with extension of hemorrhage into the ventricular system resulting in mild dilatation of the temporal horn of the right lateral ventricle. Carotid and cerebral angiogram were unremarkable. MRI of brain [ and ] demonstrated a non-enhancing and non-hemorrhagic component of the lesion along the lateral margin of the hemorrhage that was suspicious for a tumor. Subsequently, the patient developed hydrocephalus and she underwent sub-temporal craniotomy with the placement of a ventricular drain into the right temporal horn. Cerebrospinal fluid analysis was negative for flow cytometry and cytology.
CT chest, abdomen, and pelvis revealed a 11 mm hypodense lesion in the left lobe of the thyroid []. The patient has not been symptomatic with respect to thyroid. Ultrasonogram of thyroid [] confirmed the presence of a hypoechoic nodule in the superior aspect of the left lobe of the thyroid measuring 14 × 11 × 11 mm in size. No blood flow was observed within the nodule. MRI of brain performed four days after admission [] showed a heterogenous, hemorrhagic parasagittal right parieto-occipital brain lesion of 39 × 31 mm with extension