A 41-year-old Caucasian man presented at an emergency department with acute chest pain. The chest pain began 2 h before presentation. There was no history of trauma or excessive physical exercise. He had no other complaints and used no medication. Medical history recorded a subdural haematoma, as a result of trauma. According to the family history, his mother and aunt were both diagnosed with ADPKD. Our patient was a non-smoker, with no history of hypertension, diabetes mellitus or hypercholesterolaemia.
On physical examination, the blood pressure was 155/102 mmHg and the pulse 72 beats/minute; other vital parameters were normal. Electrocardiography showed a sinus rhythm of 65 beats/minute and ST elevation in the precordial leads (). Creatine kinase was 249 U/L, creatine kinase MB was 17.4 U/L and troponin T was 0.21 ng/mL. The other laboratory test results were normal. Twelve hours later, the cardiac enzymes increased to higher levels. Echocardiography revealed a hypokinetic septum and a slightly impaired left ventricular function with an ejection fraction of 45–60%.
Based on these results, a presumptive diagnosis of acute septal myocardial infarction was made. The patient was immediately transported to the University Medical Centre for cardiac intervention. Coronary artery angiography (CAG) revealed a transient occlusion of the left anterior descending (LAD) coronary artery, most probably as a result of myocardial bridging (). Other coronary arteries appeared normal. Percutaneous coronary intervention was not performed due to small vessel size. The myocardial infarction was treated with anti-platelet therapy, statin and metoprolol.
However, the chest pain returned 3 days after the presentation. A second electrocardiography showed persistent inverted T waves in the precordial leads without ST elevation. The cardiac enzyme levels were again increasing. A second CAG was performed because of suspicion of recurrent myocardial infarction. It disclosed an open LAD with a dissection in the distal part and a double lumen, which was not observed