A 60-year-old woman presented to a local hospital after she began to experience right upper quadrant pain, nausea, and vomiting. Abdominal ultrasonography showed marked dilatation of the intrahepatic bile duct (IBD) in the left lobe of the liver and common bile duct with intraductal stones.
She was diagnosed with cholangitis and then referred to our hospital in May 2011 for further investigation and treatment. She underwent laparoscopic left lobectomy for a left IBD stone and choledocholithotomy with t-tube drainage for a common bile duct stone. After one year, follow-up computed tomography (CT) showed no definite abnormalities, but laboratory data showed elevated serum levels of cancer antigen 19-9. Thus, CT scan was performed at three-month interval and a mass was observed at the atrophied right posterior segment of the liver. In addition, a palpable mass was found at the t-tube site and histologic diagnosis of the lesion by excisional biopsy was interpreted as adenocarcinoma (stage IV).
She was referred to our department for palliative chemo- therapy and received treatment with gemcitabine and cisplatin. She neither consumed any alcohol nor smoked and she reported no family history of illness. After eight cycles of gemcitabine and cisplatin (days 1 and 8: cisplatin 25 mg/m2 followed by gemcitabine 1,000 mg/m2; repeated every three weeks), the follow-up CT showed progressive disease, showing an interval increase in the size of the metastatic lesion in the abdomen, thus, the regimen was changed to cisplatin 60 mg/m2 on day 1 and 5-fluorouracil 1,000 mg/m2 on days 1-5.
However, two months after the first infusions of cisplatin and 5-fluorouracil, the patient developed gait disturbances on day 6 of the third infusion. She could not maintain a standing position with her eyes open, and a tandem gait was impossible because of severe positional imbalance. Brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) with T2-weighted images (-) and diffusion-weighted images (-) showed high signal