A 21-year-old male soldier visited the division of cardiology of our medical center with the complaint of effort angina. He had no history of smoking and no family history of heart disease. His vital signs were stable, his electrocardiogram showed a normal sinus rhythm, and the results of baseline laboratory findings were nonspecific. However, owing to the typical nature of his chest pain, which suggested an ischemic origin, we decided to perform cardiac computed tomography angiography (CTA) to rule out coronary artery diseases. The cardiac CTA images showed normal left coronary arteries but an RCA anomalously originating from the left sinus of Valsalva. Also, the proximal RCA had an interarterial course, which meant that the RCA was trapped between the aorta and the pulmonary artery ().
We performed coronary angiography (CAG) to verify the anomaly. CAG from the left sinus of Valsalva showed all 3 coronary arteries, suggesting the anomalously originating RCA (). CAG from the right coronary sinus showed no significant stenosis in the left anterior oblique view. In the right anterior oblique view, however, significant stenosis was noted in the proximal RCA as the result of external compression (). Also during CAG, an intravascular ultrasonography (IVUS) study of the RCA showed that the minimum lumen area in the proximal RCA was 3.8 mm2, which suggested significant stenosis. After CAG, we could not proceed to additional diagnostic tests to verify the evidence of ischemia in the RCA territory, such as myocardial single photon emission computed tomography (M-SPECT) or fractional flow reserve (FFR), because the patient was on a mandatory military service and did not have enough time for many diagnostic tests. However, given the findings from the CAG and IVUS, we regarded the chest pain to be originating from ischemia of the RCA territory. We therefore decided to perform surgical intervention. Owing to a slit-like stenosis of the RCA ostium, we could not choose reimplantation of the RCA ostium, and surgical un