In January 2013, a 73-year-old man presented to the Department of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery, complaining of a painful mass in the mandible on the right side. He had also a history of deep neck pain for 3 months, but it had been disregarded. A review of patient's medical history revealed that he had an acute myocardial infarction 2 years before, which was treated by percutaneous coronary angioplasty. The patient had a 30-year history of cigarette smoking and opium use. Physical examination showed a firm, well-defined swelling measuring about 3 × 3 cm in the body of the mandible on the right side. The skin over the mass was normal in color and texture. No palpable submandibular and cervical lymph node was evident. Intraoral examination showed that the involved mandibular area was edentulous and the mucosa over the mass was intact.
An orthopantomogram radiograph demonstrated an ill-defined radiolucent lesion in the body of the mandible causing pathologic fracture of the involved bone [].
The results of laboratory tests were normal with the exception of prostate-specific antigen (PSA) level which was 52 ng/ml.
Intraorally, an incisional biopsy was performed under local anesthesia. Histological sections stained with hematoxylin and eosin revealed a metastatic tumor of epithelial origin; however, it was unclear from which primary site the metastasis occurred. Histologically, the neoplastic cells arranged in glandular patterns had low mitotic index and were composed of round hyperchromatic nuclei and acidophilic cytoplasm [].
Because of concern over raised PSA level and high suspicion of prostate malignancy, the patient was referred to an urologist for further evaluation. In pelvic ultrasonography, a significantly enlarged prostate was observed. A biopsy of the prostate was done; the histopathological examination was consistent with prostatic adenocarcinoma. Whole body skeletal survey using bone scintigraphy revealed a bone lesion of the right mandible plus a destructive lesion in the cervical vertebrae. Subsequently, additional metastatic work-up including neck, chest, abdomen and pelvis computed tomography (CT) scan was performed. CT