A 71-year old woman was admitted to the hospital in November 2018. The clinical examination showed no abnormalities. Biochemical parameters in blood showed normal values apart from slightly elevated gamma-glutamyl-transferase (GGT) (160 U/l, normal up to 40U/l). She never smoked and had no family history of lung or gastrointestinal cancers. She developed dry cough over the last 6 weeks, which was resistant to treat. Therefore a chest X-ray was done, which showed an irregular left border of the heart. A subsequent chest CT-scan showed a paracardiac nodule with 2 × 1.8 cm in diameter (Fig. ), no mediastinal lymph nodes enlargement and no pleural effusions were detected.
A bronchoscopic examination with bronchial lavage was done. The lavage revealed acid proof rods, which were immediately tested for M. tuberculosis by quantiferon screening. Since the medical report was negative for tuberculosis, surgery was performed for histological diagnosis.
The exploration of the entire hemithorax left showed massive dorso-basal adhesions between the lower lobe and the thoracic wall, as well as the diaphragm. After adhesiolysis, the tumor within the lingual segment was exposed, biopsied and a histopathological frozen section examination was performed, which showed malignancy. The tumor was then anatomically resected using video assisted thoracic surgery (VATS) to remove both segments of the lingual. Complete mediastinal lymph node dissection was done. Histopathological analysis of the removed tissue indicated a neuroendocrine neoplasm, which was confirmed by immunohistochemistry. In particular, cancerous tissue was positive for synaptophysin (Fig. ), chromogranin A as well as high and low molecular weight cytokeratins detected by the antibody combination of AE1/AE3. Based on the absence of the epithelial marker TTF1 as well as the neuroendocrine markers CDX2 and cytokeratin 20 of the gastrointestinal tract, LCNEC, SCLC or a metastasis of the gastrointestinal tract could be excluded. Neither an apparent necrosis within the tissue, nor pathologic lymph node structures were observed.