A 40-year-old male patient presented to a hospital in December 2011 with a right-sided thyroid mass and hoarseness. An ultrasound scan (USS) and fine needle aspiration cytology was consistent with MTC. The blood laboratory analysis of the patient revealed high serum levels of calcitonin and CEA, 222 pg/mL and 18 ng/mL, respectively. In December 2011, the patient underwent a total thyroidectomy and bilateral neck lymphatic dissection with a good recovery. Histological analysis of this specimen revealed a 17 mm MTC. In total 49 lymph nodes were removed from the right central, paratracheal, right lateral neck, and 13 lymph nodes contained malignant deposits. These were positive for MTC (12 lymph nodes from the right and one lymph node from the left cervical). Tumor tissue examination for the RET oncogene mutations was negative and no familial or personal history was positive for a genetic syndrome. The postoperative serum calcitonin and CEA levels were 1.99 pg/mL (normal range: 0–18 pg/mL) and 0.9 ng/mL (normal range: 0–3 ng/mL non-smoker), respectively. A USS of the neck did not reveal lymphadenopathy. Following normal urinary catecholamine, metanephrine determination the patient proceeded to a surveillance program. The patient made a good recovery with a normal serum calcium on no supplements at 2 weeks follow-up. However, in the subsequent months the calcitonin levels began to rise to pre-reoperative surgery levels suggesting low grade persistent disease. A computed tomography (CT) scan and USS of the neck were performed in July 2012 revealing only cytologically proven small metastatic lymph nodes. The patient underwent a repeat uncomplicated selective neck lymph dissection. Histological analysis confirmed that lesions showed features consistent with metastatic MTC. Immunocytochemistry revealed calcitonin expression and nuclear TTF-1 expression supporting MTC. In the subsequent months serum calcitonin and CEA levels began to rise. Skin nodules began to grow and by August 2014, serum calcitonin and CEA levels reached 411