A 35-year-old male presented with left-sided exophytic scrotal mass [] that had been steadily enlarging over last 6 months. It was nontender, firm, nodular and subcutaneous in location, with ulceration of overlying skin. The mass was mobile, and not adherent to the underlying testis, epididymis and spermatic cord. There was no inguinal or abdominal lymphadenopathy. The testis and epididymis on both sides were normal. There were no local or systemic signs and symptoms suggestive of any sexually transmitted disease. There were no other complaints suggestive of any other local or systemic illness. Past medical history of the patient was unremarkable. There was no history of previous local irradiation or long term anabolic steroid abuse. There was no history of high-risk sexual behavior. General and systemic examination was within normal limits. The clinical differentials considered included warty carcinoma/sarcoma, nodular stage of Kaposi sarcoma, leiomyoma with secondary ulceration of the overlying skin and unusually large mass formed by coalesced benign warts.
Hematological examination and routine biochemical investigations were within normal range. He was seronegative for human immunodeficiency virus and venereal disease research laboratory test. Culture of urine and urethral swab was negative. Ultrasound (USG) of the mass revealed a well-circumscribed hypoechoic lesion 7 cm × 6 cm × 3 cm in the subcutaneous plane without any calcification. The underlying and contralateral testes were normal.
Wide excision of mass was done under general anesthesia, and the specimen was subjected to histopathological examination. On gross examination, the specimen revealed an ulcerated exophytic growth measuring 7 cm × 6.5 cm × 3 cm []. Cut section of the mass was grey white []. Microscopic examination revealed a spindle cell tumor in the subcutaneous location []. The tumor cells were arranged in fascicles containing eosinophilic cytoplasm and cigar-shaped nuclei revealing nuclear pleomorphism, prominent nucleoli and 3–5 mitotic figures per high power field. A few bizar