In March 2005, a 67-year-old Korean woman visited a hospital with a two-month history of coughing. The patient was on antihypertensive treatment and had received treatment for tuberculosis one year before. She had no history of smoking; however, she might have been exposed to passive smoking while working as a washroom cleaner. A 2 cm mass was observed in the upper lobe of her left lung and transthoracic needle aspiration biopsy revealed adenocarcinoma.
The patient underwent a left upper lobectomy in March 2005 and her postoperative stage was determined as T2N0M0. After surgical resection, there was no recurrence for approximately one year. However, multiple growing nodules were detected in the remaining part of her left lung on a follow-up computed tomography (CT) scan performed in June 2006. Serial CT scans revealed that the slow, but continuously growing nodules were recurrent lung cancer.
The patient refused further surgical treatment or any invasive procedure. Therefore, first-line chemotherapy with gemcitabine and cisplatin was initiated in April 2007. Although a follow-up CT after two cycles showed stable disease (SD), administration of chemotherapy was ceased because she could not tolerate the drug toxicity.
After five months of rest, a CT revealed growing nodules; hence, second-line treatment with 250 mg/day gefitinib was started in November 2007. A partial response was shown on follow-up CT in December 2007 (Fig ). The dose was adjusted depending on tolerability, and eventually decreased to 250 mg every third day because of grade 3 skin toxicity.
The lung nodules had started growing since May 2009. While Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) indicated progressive disease, she did not experience any worsening of symptoms; therefore, we continued treatment with gefitinib. Although a follow-up CT showed a smoldering progression of metastatic lesions (Fig ), continued treatment with gefitinib controlled the pulmonary adenocarcinoma for more than six years. Treatment with gefitinib was discontinued in April 2014 because she no longer received reimbursement from the health