A 75-year-old female patient reported to the Department of Oral Pathology with complaints of burning sensation in the oral cavity and difficulty in swallowing for the past 2 years. The patient was weak and of thin built with no declared previous history of systemic illness, although she did give a history of viral fever 2 years before and was hospitalized briefly for the same. The patient had a history of betelnut chewing along with tobacco for the past 50 years and reportedly quit the habit 3 years ago.
On extra oral examination, multiple nodules of 0.5 mm were seen distributed over the face and neck region. There were papular lesions on the neck which seemed to have ruptured and healed with scarring. The eyes were noticeably reddish in color and there was visible scarring in bulbar conjunctiva of the right eye [Figures and ]. Patient also reported a history of recurrent genital vesicles and ulceration, but none was noticed during medical examination by dermatologist during the present visit. Submandibular lymph nodes were palpable bilaterally, tender and freely movable.
On intraoral examination, irregular erythematous ulcerations of hard palate, soft palate and alveolar mucosa were seen; which were covered by a greyish white pseudomembranous slough. Multiple, intact, translucent vesicles of size ranging from 3 and 5 mm in diameter were present in the anterior hard palate region []. On the right buccal mucosa, an irregular ulceration with erythematous halo, covered by a greyish white slough was seen in relation to 16 and 17 [Figures and ]. The oral hygiene of the patient was poor, with significant calculus and plaque deposition over the teeth and the gingiva showed generalized erythematous changes.
The clinical features of this case with classical intact vesicles and bullae accompanied with generalized irregular ulceration and symblepharon (scar formation) in right eye led to a provisional diagnosis of cicatricial pemphigoid. Differential diagnoses of LAD and pemphigus vulgaris were also suggested.