A 41-year-old South African man, normally fit, and well presented with 6 months of dull right-sided anterior chest pain with 14 kg of weight loss. He was requiring codeine, paracetamol, and ibuprofen for pain control.
He served in the military for 17 years and currently works in information technology. He is a 5 pack-year ex-smoker and quit at the age of 18; he has no previous asbestos exposure.
Initial physical examination and laboratory findings were unremarkable. In view of his weight loss, gastroscopy and colonoscopy were performed and were normal. A computed tomography (CT) of his chest and abdomen showed a crescent of abnormal right-sided paraspinal soft tissue extending from the sixth to the ninth thoracic vertebral body with a lobulated soft tissue posterior mediastinal mass continuous with the right side of the distal esophagus (Fig. ). There were also multiple pleural and subpleural nodules in the horizontal and oblique fissures without evidence of asbestos plaques.
An endoscopic ultrasound-guided fine needle aspiration (FNA) of the posterior mediastinal mass yielded bland spindle-shaped cells with “wavy” nuclei within myxoid stroma. The morphological features were suspicious for a neural lesion, possibly a ganglioneuroma. The patient experienced severe pain at the time of the FNA, which again suggested a lesion of neural origin. A chest radiograph performed the next day showed a new pleural effusion that progressed over the following 2 weeks, with associated breathlessness. He was referred to respiratory services and 800 mL of blood-stained fluid was drained during thoracentesis.
The initial CT scan was reviewed with an expert chest radiologist and it was felt that the posterior mediastinal mass and fissural nodularity were consistent with pleural malignancy. This radiological opinion was not consistent with the cytology diagnosis of possible ganglioneuroma and further investigation was undertaken. A positron emission tomographic CT demonstrated moderate fluorodeoxyglucose avidity in the right medial pleural cavity, in the fissural nodular