A 66-year-old man with a smoking history, dyslipidemia, and a coronary bypass surgery procedure done 7 months before came to the emergency hospital with fever and cellulitis in the left popliteal fossa.
A clinical examination revealed a pyrexic patient with a painless, pulsatile swelling of the left popliteal fossa with signs of local inflammation (), and distal pulses were present. His contralateral leg had intact femoral, popliteal (expansive) and distal pedal pulses.
The blood tests showed a significantly raised white blood cell count of 17.30×109/L. The blood cultures initially were negative.
Duplex scan showed a large popliteal aneurysm of 8.0×7.2 cm with gas inside the popliteal sac (), without deep vein thrombosis. A 3.1 cm popliteal artery aneurysm was noted on the right side and both great saphenous veins were not apt for bypass.
An urgent computed tomography (CT) angiogram showed a large fusiform aneurysm of the left popliteal artery of approximately 8×7 cm with gas inside the aneurysmal sac, without contrast extravasation. There was a contralateral popliteal aneurysm of approximately 3 cm. ().
Surgery was performed through a standard medial approach. After proximal and distal control of the popliteal artery the aneurysm was excluded with ligation of the popliteal artery. Vascular continuity was restored with a basilic vein graft of the left arm from the first popliteal portion to the distal third portion (). The aneurysm was opened and decompressed through a posterior approach. There was organized thrombus with evidence of purulence, thus multiple cultures were sent, including tissue from the aneurysm sac. We decided closure of the posterior approach by secondary intention. After the operation, distal pulses were present.
Histologic examination revealed bacterial colonies and polymorphonuclear inflammatory infiltrates (); cultures of the operative specimens were positive for Staphylococcus aureus. The result of an echocardiogram was normal and no other focus of sepsis was found. He received antibiotic therapy with vancomycin and metronidazole for a month.
The patient was discharged home