A 57-year-old Hispanic woman was admitted with nausea, vomiting and weakness of 1 week duration. She described herself to be in good health but had not seen a doctor for 15 years. Her history was only significant for pregnancies and visits to the emergency room for epistaxis 3 years prior to admission and after a fall 6 years prior to admission. She used no routine home medications and she had no known drug allergies. She has 3 children in good health. She denied smoking and the use of alcohol or illicit drugs. Her father died from malignancy, type unknown. Physical examination on admission was normal except for pallor. Initial laboratory findings are presented in table .
The patient was started on hemodialysis on admission and was transfused with 2 units of packed red blood cells for severe anemia. Urinalysis was positive for microscopic hematuria, and the patient had positive urine M spike with faint κ light chain on serum immunofixation (table ). Renal biopsy on day 4 of admission was consistent with chronic sclerosing pauci-immune glomerulonephritis (fig. ). Neither immunofluorescence nor electron microscopy showed evidence of an immune-mediated glomerulonephritis. ‘Burnt-out’ pauci-immune crescentic glomerulonephritis was therefore diagnosed.
Further investigations to evaluate myeloma showed a negative bone survey and bone scan. Initial bone marrow biopsy showed monoclonal plasmacytosis (12%) consistent with plasma cell myeloma. There was no evidence of increased blasts, monoclonal B-cell or aberrant T-cell process. The patient was eventually discharged home with hematology/oncology follow-up and remains on outpatient hemodialysis. She was started on high-dose dexamethasone a few days after discharge and bortezomib 1.3 mg/m2 twice weekly after hemodialysis approximately 1 month after discharge.
She was readmitted 3 months later with fever and symptoms of upper respiratory tract infection and was treated with antibiotics. The immunological investigations were repeated because of the rarity of multiple myeloma presenting with pauci-immune crescentic glomerulonephritis. These