We received approval from the Institutional Review Board of Jilin University First Hospital, Changchun, Jilin, China for the publication of this report; the patient also provided informed consent for the publication of this case report.
A 30-year-old man accidentally discovered a painless, quail egg-sized, mass in the lateral upper quadrant of the right breast, next to the nipple in February 2018. The patient did not initially seek medical consultation. In March 2018, the patient detected a painless enlargement of the mass and sought medical consultation at his local hospital. A breast ultrasonography examination revealed a mass, 23.7 mm × 7.5 mm in diameter (Fig. ). No abnormality was identified in the left breast. Mammography revealed a well-circumscribed mass of mixed density in the right breast, with no evidence of invasion of the ipsilateral axillary nodes (Fig. ). The patient refused to undergo fine needle aspiration cytology examination. The provisional clinical diagnosis was a lipomyoma or adenoma fibrosum.
The patient was referred to our hospital for further assessment, surgical management, and treatment. The patient's history was reviewed. We noted the following characteristics: current smoker (with a long history of smoking); no alcohol consumption; no history of trauma to the region; no history of prior surgery or radiation exposure of the region; and no personal or significant family history of cancer. With no important history identified, the clinical diagnosis of a hamartoma was established. The physical examination revealed a soft, mobile, painless mass located in the right breast, measuring approximately 2 cm in diameter, with no abnormality identified in the left breast. On March 27, 2018, the patient underwent surgical resection of the mass at our hospital. Gross examination of the resected mass revealed an oval, well-defined, and encapsulated mass, with gray-yellow coloring and a smooth margin (Fig. ). The nodule was very soft and had a fibrotic envelope. Pathological examination confirmed