A 54-year-old woman visited our clinic for recurrent upper respiratory infection. Three years ago, she had a dry cough for weeks, and a chest radiograph showed tiny lung nodules. Although a follow-up chest radiograph was recommended, she did not return. Her new chest radiograph showed multiple lung nodules occurring at the same sites, but larger in size (). She was hospitalized to obtain pathologic samples from the nodules for differentiation from malignancy.
She had never smoked and had no trauma or chest operation history. She entered menopause 2 years ago. Sixteen years ago, she had an operation to remove an abdominal wall mass. At that time, the mass was histologically confirmed as a desmoid tumor and no additional treatment was performed.
During our patient's recent hospitalization, she was alert and the following findings were noted in a physical examination: blood pressure, 130/80 mm Hg; pulse rate, 72 beats per minute; respiratory rate, 20 breaths per minute; and body temperature, 36.8℃. She had no prominent abnormalities on chest, abdominal, or extremity examinations. Clear breath sounds were auscultated on the thorax, and other results of the physical examination were non-specific.
A chest radiograph showed multiple lung nodules. In the chest computed tomography (CT) images, small multiple nodules were scattered throughout the whole lung field including apex and posterior segment of right upper lobe, right middle lobe, superior segment of right lower lobe (RLL), and left major fissure. Pulmonary nodules in both lungs were equal or less than 2.1 cm in diameter and a well-circumscribed round shape, with boundaries showing delayed enhancement (). Compared to the chest radiograph that was performed 3 years ago, the pulmonary nodules grew bigger. Nodules displayed in the current chest CT seemed to be benign, not malignant. Multiple ill-defined ground glass opaque nodules were also present in both lungs (). Lymph node enlargement in the mediastinum was not seen.
Laboratory