A 48-year old man presented in emergency department (ED) with a 2-day history of rightsided numbness in face and arm. He was obese with body mass index of 43.6, heavy smoker since the age of 18 and had a medical history of uncontrolled hypertension, diabetes and hyperlipidaimia. At the ED his behavior-raised questions as disinhibition and impulsivity dominated with patient urinating in public in the examination room. Mild incontinence was reported by patient lasting one year. He also reported being unemployed for three years due to difficulty performing tasks he could easily manage some years before. Neurological examination revealed subtle facial paresis of which patient was unaware. An urgent brain computed tomography scan (CT) revealed marked dilatation of the third and lateral ventricles and a calcified dolichoectatic basilar artery (). There was no papilledema or impaired eye movement on ophthalmological examination. During hospitalization and since there were no signs of mass effect on initial brain CT or papilledema patient underwent lumbar puncture (LP) in an attempt to perform a cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) tap test. Opening CSF pressure was 41 cm H2O and tap test was early terminated after removing 20 mL. Laboratory studies were unremarkable. Patient was assessed before and after LP with mini-mental state examination (MMSE), reported incontinence, walking pattern and distance measured. Even though a full CSF tap test was not performed, we did confirm improvement in all four tests and especially wide-based gait returning to normal. There was also striking improvement in disinhibition and impulsivity. Neuropsychological examination concluded in moderate cognitive impairment, with MMSE score of 20 out of 30, especially in the elements of registration recall, attention and complex command execution. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of brain found dilated third and lateral ventricles and a dolichoectatic basilar artery causing compression, upward displacement of third ventricular floor and mild posterior brainstem displacement (). On MRI diffusion weighted images high signal was observed in the left