A 34-year-old man presented with abrupt onset of intermittent exercise-induced pain in the left calf that improved with rest. He denied any trauma to the lower extremity. Past medical history was significant for 14 years of tobacco abuse, and 1-year use of electronic cigarette. He denied history or symptomatology concerning for vasculitis, autoimmune, connective tissue, thrombotic or rheumatologic disorders.
Physical examination revealed normal vital signs with palpable left femoral but absent popliteal, posterior tibial, and dorsalis pedis pulses. In spite of the absence of pulses on the left lower limb, the patient’s foot did not have other findings of critical ischemia. The remainder of the physical exam was unremarkable.
Arterial duplex ultrasound showed a complete occlusion of the left popliteal artery. The patient was started on anticoagulation with enoxaparin to bridge to warfarin. Magnetic resonance angiogram of abdomen and pelvis with three-vessel runoff revealed widely patent common femoral, profunda femoral, and proximal-mid superficial femoral arteries. However, distal segment of the left superficial femoral and above-knee popliteal arteries showed abrupt occlusion, with the occluded segment spanning 9 cm (). Mild medical deviation of bilateral above-knee popliteal artery was also present suggesting extrinsic compression laterally, although with patent right arterial system (). This deviation was concluded to be related to the proximal and lateral aberrant insertion of the medial head of the gastrocnemius muscle in the left leg and due to a fibrous band or muscle slip in the right leg (–). Catheter-based angiogram was performed 3 days later and confirmed the diagnosis of distal superficial femoral and popliteal artery occlusion with possible popliteal entrapment syndrome as the etiology (). It also revealed significant infrapopliteal artery disease suggestive of thromboembolic event versus Buerger’s disease ().
Management was started with enoxaparin (80 mg) subcutaneous injection twice daily, aspirin (81 mg) once daily and Lipitor (40 mg) at night. Due to the severity of his