A 68-year-old male, known smoker, alcoholic and hypertensive on regular medication, presented with history of cough, shortness of breath, wheezing of 6 months duration associated with occasional bouts of hemoptysis. He had no past or family history of malignancies. No history of generalized lymphadenopathy. The results of the laboratory tests were within normal limits except for a mild normocytic anemia. Clinical and radiological findings favored the diagnosis of carcinoma lung stage T1N0M0. A whole body PET-CT was performed which showed a hypermetabolic cavitating spiculated mass lesion in the upper lobe of right lung measuring 3.6 × 2.5 cm suggestive of primary lung neoplasm and a hypermetabolic eccentric wall thickening in short segment of distal ileal loop of uncertain nature [Figures and ]. Prior to resection of small bowel mass a contrast-enhanced CT enteroclysis was performed on a 64-slice scanner with axial and coronal reformations which showed eccentric soft tissue lesion towards terminal ileum measuring 18 mm in length and 10 mm in thickness. The patient underwent VATS for right upper and middle lobectomy with mediastinal nodal clearance and laparoscopy-assisted ileal loop resection and anastomosis.
The ileal mass was subjected to frozen section examination to ascertain its nature. Segment of ileum measured 8 cm in length and showed a relatively well circumscribed polypoidal grey white submucosal nodule measuring 4 × 2.5 × 2 cm. A provisional diagnosis of poorly differentiated malignancy was rendered.
FFPE sections from ileal mass showed diffuse expansion of lamina propria, submucosa as well as the muscle layer by sheets of large cells. These neoplastic cells possessed moderate to abundant amount of cytoplasm with vesicular nuclei and prominent nucleoli. Some of these cells exhibited irregular, cleaved, lobated nuclei. Numerous mitotic figures were identified. However, there was no evidence of squamoid or glandular differentiation [Figure and ]. The overlying mucosa showed partial villous atrophy. The mesenteric lymph nodes identified showed reactive changes. Immunohistochemically