A 55-year-old female patient with maxillary unilateral partially edentulous reported to the Department of Maxillofacial Prosthodontics, Bapuji Dental College and Hospital, Karnataka, India with the complaint of having difficulty in eating and speaking due to loss of teeth. The patient gave history of pain and swelling on lower left side of the jaw 4 years back, diagnosed as moderately differentiated squamous cell carcinoma of left mandibular alveolus involving the ramus due to chronic tobacco chewing since 40 years. The medical history revealed that the patient was surgically operated 4 years back by a wide resection of the tumor with left hemimandibulectomy without disarticulation, left radical neck dissection and reconstruction with pectoralis major myocutaneous flap. Extraoral examination indicated facial asymmetry and a convex profile with deviation of mandible to the left side []. Past dental history revealed extraction of periodontally weakened maxillary teeth from 11, 21 to 27. Intraoral examination revealed maxillary kennedy's class II partially edentulous arch with missing teeth from 11, 21 to 27 and on palpation, the absence of mandibular ridge from left canine region posteriorly with missing teeth 33 to 37. Clinical examination of the surgical wound closure showed consolidated cicatricial tissues [], the remaining natural teeth in both arches were attrited with slight loss of periodontal support.
An orthopantomogram radiograph revealed resected mandible distal to left canine involving entire mandible of left side without condylectomy [] representing class II type postsurgical impairment according to Cantor and Curtis classification,[] which was determined by prosthetic considerations.
The surgical and implant reconstruction of the defect were suggested as choice of treatment; however, the patient refused any further surgical intervention due to poor socioeconomic status. Hence, the patients mandible was manually guided into centric occlusion without excessive force [] and a treatment was planned for fabricating maxillary acrylic guided inclined plane with twin occlusion prosthesis to meet the need of the patient opposing mandibular acrylic partial denture.