A 50-year-old female presented for a second opinion after a 3-year history of spontaneous blistering affecting the extensor surfaces of her hands and forearms with associated scarring. She had been diagnosed with EBA by a previous clinician based on biopsy histopathology findings 3 months earlier. There was a cell-poor subepidermal vesicle containing only a few lymphocytes and with festooning of the dermal papillae and very little dermal inflammatory infiltrate seen (fig. ). Direct immunofluorescence studies revealed positive staining for IgG in a linear pattern along the dermoepidermal junction. All other markers were negative and salt split skin studies could not be performed due to technical difficulties.
The patient was initially treated with potent topical corticosteroids as well as low-dose oral corticosteroids and was still experiencing flares. She was then tried on 100 mg of oral doxycycline, which resulted in some improvement. Her past medical history included monoclonal gammopathy of uncertain significance which was managed conservatively. She also reported a positive family history for blistering of the hands affecting her maternal grandmother but no known family history of liver disease. She was a non-smoker and consumed 10–15 alcoholic standard drinks per week. She had been taking the oral contraceptive pill for many years but had recently ceased taking this.
On examination, the dorsal aspects of both hands were erythematous, with evidence of milia and post-inflammatory hyperpigmentation (fig. ). There was also associated hyperkeratotic scaling and lichenification of the skin. Based on this clinical appearance, further testing was performed, including full blood count, renal function, electrolytes and liver function, which were all normal. In addition no HFE mutations were detected and hepatitis B/C and HIV serologies were negative. Further urine and stool porphyrin studies showed elevated urine porphyrin, faecal porphyrin and porphyria/creatinine ratio, which confirmed the diagnosis of PCT (table ). Desmoglein 1 and 3 reactivity and collagen VII reactivity testing were negative, excluding a concomitant diagnosis of pemphigus or