A 54-year-old woman was admitted to our hospital complaining of intermittent palpitation which began 6 years ago and aggravated during the last 2 months. After the first symptom, she visited a local clinic and her symptom was managed under the impression of cardiac arrhythmia. But one year later, she discontinued anti-arrhythmic medication on her own. Until two months before admission, she had experienced intermittent palpitation again but it did not interfere with her life. Afterwards, palpitation became more severe suddenly and squeezing anterior chest tightness radiating to the left axilla developed and continued for about 10 minutes.
The patient was a housewife and had no history of smoking or alcohol consumption. There was no specific problem in her past medical and family history. The body temperature was 36.5°C and the heart beats were irregularr and rated over 140/min. On physical examination, mild moist crackling sounds were heard below a third on the back bilaterally. Neck vein engorgement was also seen. Considering the chest pain as ischemic in nature, nitroglycerin was given sublingually and the pain subsided. ECG showed atrial fibrillation with rapid ventricular response. Cardiomegaly with pulmonary vascular blurring and redistribution was seen on chest X-rays (). Other laboratory data, including cardiac enzymes and thyroid function tests, were within normal limits. Initially, cardiac tumor was not considered as the differential diagnosis. Transthoracic echocardiography, which was performed after her symptom had disappeared, showed normal global left ventricular systolic function (ejection fraction: 63%) with left ventricular enlargement and hypertrophy, and also showed trivial mitral regurgitation. On coronary angiogram, the left coronary arteries showed normal findings. But in the right coronary artery, we could find two tumor blushings which were supplied by a conus branch (). The one was on the right atrial side of the interatrial septum draining directly to the right atrium and the other was on the interventricular septum communicating with the coronary