On Feb. 3, 1982, a 33 year old man, an industrial worker, was admitted to the general surgery department of Korea University Hospital because of intermittent claudication and longstanding ulceration of the right leg, which developed following acupuncture on his right leg. The perfusion was very poor and the arterial pulses were not palpable over the femoral arteries and down either leg. An aorto-femoral angiogram revealed occlusion of the right femoral artery with patent anterior tibial, posterior tibial, and peroneal arteries, and the occlusion of the left internal iliac artery with collateral arteries.
For the purpose of limb salvage, embolectomy and right femoro-tibial saphenous vein bypass graft surgery was attempted. There was no evidence of atherosclerosis in the leg vessels. Twelve hours postoperatively, the bypass graft stopped functioning. Reoperation was done and thrombectomy was carried out, but the patient finally had to undergo above-knee amputation on the right leg at a later date. During this admission, the patient experienced multiple episodes of precordial chest pain and an episode of colicky left flank pain.
According to the past medical history, he was first admitted to Korea University Hospital because of severe chest pain, which awakened him early in the morning of July 23, 1976. The electrocardiogram on admission showed changes compatible with an acute inferior wall myocardial infarction (), the peak SGOT was 230 IU L and the peak LDH was 1500 U ml (Wrobleski). The hospital course was uneventful except for the intermittent episodes of abdominal pain. He was discharged on Aug. 16, 1976.
Between Aug., 1976 and Feb., 1982, the patient had to be amitted to the hospital three times. The first time was for the sudden development of dizziness, the second time for abdominal pain due to ileus, and the third time because of chest tightness and abdominal pain.
He had had an appendectomy at the age of 13 and had contracted typhoid fever at 14. According to his history his father and