A 42-year-old Indian female with average height and moderate built reported to the dental office, complaining of blackish discoloration on the lower jaw since 6 months and difficulty while eating; especially with the lower front teeth. Intraoral examination revealed nontender and painless bluish-black growth with rough and irregular surface extending over the gingiva of 35–44 regions, which revealed no findings of ulceration and bleeding []. There was major involvement over the labial aspect of mandibular gingiva followed by anteroposterior extension into the vestibule and oral aspect of lip mucosa; but with minimal extension of the lesion on lingual aspect. The patient noticed a small blackish patch approximately 1 cm × 1 cm which gradually increased to present size with associated mobility of teeth. The mobility was appreciable in almost all mandibular anterior teeth. The overall general examination of the neck, back, extremities, and chest was insignificant except for nevi. Thus, the cutaneous part of melanoma was ruled out. During general examination, submandibular lymph nodes were enlarged but nontender approximately 1.5 cm × 1.5 cm in dimension. No history of trauma or tobacco in any form was reported. All vital signs were within normal limits. After evaluating hematological parameters, an incisional biopsy was performed under local anesthesia, for a confirmatory diagnosis.
In microscopic examination, the H and E stained section revealed in situ melanotic pigments []. The section showed large cells with pleomorphic vesicular nucleus and brown pigment, few abnormal mitoses, and altered nucleocytoplasmic ratio invading into the connective tissue in the form of sheets, cords, and islands []. The tissue was also immunohistochemically stained for human melanoma black-45, a specific marker for melanocytes that also revealed cytoplasmic positivity of malignant melanocytes for the antibody [Figures and ]. After confirming the diagnosis as malignant melanoma, segmental resection, and bone grafting was performed by medical personnel. In posttreatment follow-up, patient reported with some other problems such as difficulty in eating and speech. The intraoral