A 46-year-old female with a history of asthma comes with a chief complaint of worsening shortness of breath presented with associated dry cough for two days. She reports minimal exertion made her dyspnea worse. She denies recent travel, sick contact, fever, chills, night sweat, chest pain and sputum production, as well as prior history of lung disease. She states that she has never smoked or used vaping products. She reports a remote history of using marijuana and cocaine.
Upon physical examination, the patient had hypoxia on room air. She was tachypneic and using respiratory accessory muscles, though was able to speak in full sentences.
A computed tomography angiography (CTA) chest was performed which showed diffuse patchy alveolar opacities throughout both lungs. The patient was initially placed on high flow nasal cannula and broad spectrum antibiotics, but her condition worsened quickly - she had to be intubated and temporarily paralyzed to help with oxygenation. Her infectious workup serologies and bronchial alveolar lavage analysis was negative. She was started on high dose steroids due to concern for acute interstitial lung disease. Subsequent workup for rheumatologic and cardiac cause was negative.
Two days post intubation, the patient’s mother revealed to the nursing staff that the patient, contrary to what she admitted to the hospital staff earlier, had in fact been using e-cigarettes one month prior to her hospital admission. Meanwhile, the patient’s condition improved, until she was extubated to nasal cannula after being on the ventilator for five days. She was later transitioned to room air and discharged to a rehabilitation center. She was advised to complete a ten-day long course of steroids.
Investigations
Upon arrival, the patient had a complete blood count performed. She had an elevated white blood count with bandemia, as well as an elevated lactic acid of 2.3 mmol/L. Her CD4 count was low, but she tested negative for HIV. Blood cultures were drawn and were