A 63-year-old woman of Japanese ethnic background was evaluated at the thoracic surgery outpatient clinic due to a round, 2 cm diameter lesion in the right hemithorax, which was found incidentally on a routine chest radiograph. The patient had a history of controlled hypertension as well as a 40 packs year history of cigarette smoking prior to quitting 4 years earlier. She had no history of chest pain, dyspnea, or cough. All laboratory studies, including serum tumor markers, were within normal limits. A computed tomography (CT) of the chest confirmed the presence of a 2 × 1.6-cm, well-defined, circumscribed, and round right middle lobe nodule in the projection of the pulmonary artery ().
Bronchoscopy showed no abnormalities, and cytological brushing was negative for neoplasia. The diagnosis of a solitary peripheral PAA was considered, and surgery was recommended. A right muscle-sparing fifth intercostal space thoracotomy was performed. Examination revealed a 2 cm peripheral, pulsating nodule in the medial segment of the middle lobe. The nodule was soft and had a palpable thrill. No other lung or vascular lesions were identified. After dissection of the oblique and horizontal fissures, the interlobar artery and the main arteries to the middle lobe had a normal appearance. Due to the risk of bleeding, the lesion was not biopsied. A middle lobectomy was performed. The patient had an uneventful recovery and was discharged from the hospital on the fifth post-operative day.
At gross examination, the pulmonary arteries to the middle lobe were dissected into the intraparenchymal level, and serial sections were performed. It showed an isolated saccular aneurysmal vascular formation at the anterior arterial division close to the pleura, which was filled with blood clots and measured up to 1.6 cm in diameter, with a very thin wall, with only an area of whitish thickening (). The surrounding parenchyma showed no macroscopic peculiarities. At the histology, the vascular defect consisted of severe irregular