A 37-year-old, previously healthy, Caucasian female patient sought medical care, complaining of a 2-month history of abdominal discomfort, nausea, vomiting, lack of appetite, weight loss (6 kg in 2 months), and fever at the beginning of the symptoms. She denied alcohol consumption, tobacco smoking, use of medications or illicit drugs, contraceptives, previous hemotransfusion, or surgical procedure. The physical examination showed a well-looking patient with normal hemodynamic parameters, who weighed 69 kg, and had a body mass index of 29. The abdomen was mildly distended, the liver was palpable until 4 cm below the right costal margin, and Traube’s space was dull on percussion. The remaining physical examination was normal. The initial laboratory work-up is shown in .
The abdominal ultrasound examination showed an enlarged liver with diffuse heterogeneous and coarsened echotexture. Portal and hepatic veins as well as the gall bladder, the biliary tree, and the spleen were normal. A small amount of free fluid was present within the abdominal cavity. The abdominal computed tomography (CT) showed an enlarged liver and caudate lobe hypertrophy causing a narrowing of the inferior vena cava. Liver parenchyma showed heterogeneous attenuation coefficient with some nodules sketches. A small amount of free fluid was present in the abdominal cavity.
The patient did not attend the scheduled follow-up and 4 months later she entered the emergency room presenting hematemesis. The physical examination revealed normal hemodynamic parameters and neurological status; however, moderate ascites and right pleural effusion were detected. The upper digestive endoscopy disclosed esophageal varices and hypertensive gastropathy; the former were tied off with elastic bands. On this occasion the hepatic Doppler ultrasound showed the venous portal system without signs of thrombosis with monophasic waveform and normal peak systolic velocity. The left and middle hepatic veins were pervious with normal flow direction, but the right hepatic vein, as well as the gastric and splenic veins, could not be accessed.