The patient has given consent for the clinical details of the case to be published in a medical journal.
A 32-year-old male weighing 70 kg presented to Respiratory Medicine department of our hospital with a history of cough, progressive dyspnea and hemoptysis. Dyspnea was positional in nature, relieved in lateral and sitting position. The patient was a chronic smoker and had quit smoking 1 year back. Auscultation of the chest revealed bilateral monophonic wheeze and conducted sounds. The chest X-ray revealed loss of lung volume and collapse of the lower lobe on the left side. The arterial blood gas analysis at the time of admission revealed PaO2 of 54.4 mmHg on room air which improved to 71 mmHg after nebulization and bronchodilator therapy. Preoperative pulmonary function tests revealed obstructive ventilation defects with reduced vital capacity, and flow volume loops demonstrated flow limitation during both phases of respiration. Computed tomography scan of the neck and thorax revealed a 21 mm × 17 mm × 15 mm broad base mass arising from the left posterolateral wall of the trachea, occluding the tracheal lumen by 80% and located 1.5 cm proximal to carina []. Preoperative bronchoscopy confirmed a tracheal mass 9 cm from the vocal cords obstructing approximately three-fourth of the tracheal lumen []. It was possible to negotiate a 6.0 mm outer diameter bronchoscope (Pentax video bronchoscope EB-1570, Pentax Corporation, Europe GmbH) through the space available in posterolateral aspect, beyond which the carina was clearly visible and free of any infiltration. An apparently vascular mass did not bleed on fine needle aspiration biopsy. The tissue biopsy revealed the mass to be an adenocarcinoma and therefore the patient was scheduled for resection of the tumor with primary anastomosis of the trachea through right anterolateral thoracotomy. The airway was evaluated as Mallampati class I and other biochemical and hematological parameters were normal. Patient received a course of broad spectrum antibiotics, bronchodilator therapy and nebulization preoperatively.
Since