A 70-year-old male patient presented to the Department of Otorhinolaryngology in November 2012, with complaints of throat pain and difficulty in swallowing since 2 months. He also complained of weight loss for 2 months. He is a smoker since his adulthood, not a hypertensive or diabetic. On general physical examination, the patient was pale, emaciated and lymph nodes were not palpable. Examination of the oral cavity revealed a growth in the left tonsillar area measuring 3 cm × 3 cm × 2 cm, hard in consistency and bleeds on touch. With the above findings, a clinical diagnosis of carcinoma of the left tonsil was made and punch biopsy was done. Sections from the biopsy showed lesion lined by stratified squamous epithelium exhibiting dysplastic features, underlying sub epithelium showed malignant squamous cells arranged in groups and nest and at places in the form of pearl. The cells had large vesicular nuclei with prominent nucleoli and eosinophilic cytoplasm []. With the above features, a pathological diagnosis of moderately differentiated squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) of the tonsil stage II (T2N0M0) was made. The patient received curative radiotherapy and he was symptom-free.
In March 2014, he complained of swelling in the right frontoparietal region which was gradually progressive. Patient's general condition was poor, emaciated and wheelchair bound. On local examination, the swelling measured 4 cm × 3 cm × 2 cm, was soft in consistency and overlying skin was not pinchable []. On fine needle aspiration, 6 ml of fluid was aspirated. On microscopic examination, tumor cells were squamoid in nature with vesicular, pleomorphic nuclei with scanty to moderate eosinophilic cytoplasm. Individual cell keratinization was seen []. With the above features, a diagnosis of cutaneous metastasis from carcinoma of the tonsil was made. Since the general condition of the patient was poor, supportive treatment was offered and was planned for radiotherapy but patient deteriorated and expired after 2 days of the diagnosis