A 62-year-old female patient reported to a private dental clinic with pain in the right lower back tooth region for the past 2 weeks. Intraoral examination revealed the presence of reddish buccal gingival growth in relation to mesial aspect of tooth no. 47 measuring approximately 0.5 cm × 0.5 cm. Grade III mobility was evident in 47. The rest of the dentition exhibited generalized chronic periodontitis. The patient gave no history of tobacco usage in any form. Extraoral examination revealed a single palpable, nontender, mobile and firm submandibular lymph node on the right side. On the basis of above findings, the buccal growth was provisionally diagnosed as an inflammatory/reactive gingival growth and apical periodontitis in relation to 47. Since the patient insisted only on symptomatic medical management, she was prescribed antibiotics, analgesics and chlorhexidine mouthwash for 3 days. A complete hemogram and biochemical assay for blood sugar was requested and the patient was asked to report after a week. One week recall visit revealed unsatisfactory healing and blood investigation reports were all within normal limits, excepting a slightly elevated erythrocyte sedimentation rate. Due to the persistence of the lesion and poor response to medical therapy a likelihood of noninfectious and noninflammatory pathology was strongly suspected. Since the patient did not want any further conservative management and insisted on an extraction, the dentist decided to extract the tooth. Considering the innocuous appearance of the lesion, perceived lack of risk factors and the patients’ insistence of symptomatic management and unwillingness of the patient to undergo any radiographic examination, the dentist requested for an expert opinion from the speciality services. Considering the age of the patient, ambiguous clinical presentation and the refractory nature of the lesion, a differential diagnosis of OSCC and metastatic carcinoma to the gingiva was considered. Only after the expert opinion and counselling by the specialist, did the patient agree for immediate biopsy along with extraction and the radiograph was taken only on follow-up.
On the 2nd week recall, the patient