A 56-year-old man who developed ankylosing spondylitis at the age of 33 in 1986 complained of dyspnea and back pain for 10 days before his first admission to the pulmonology department of our hospital via the emergency room in 2009. At another hospital in 2002, he had been treated with internal fixation of the thoracic and lumbar spine due to an ankylosing spondylitis-associated spine deformity. He was clinically diagnosed with smear-negative pulmonary tuberculosis in 2004 and received incomplete treatment. In 2007, he was diagnosed with reactivation of pulmonary tuberculosis and took anti-tuberculosis agents for 9 months . Medical records review showed that he was clinically diagnosed with smearnegative, culture-negative pulmonary tuberculosis based only on radiological findings and without mycobacterial confirmation. At the time of admission to out hospital, the patient was not taking drugs other than anti-tuberculous agents and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs for intermittent pain control. He has smoked half a pack of cigarettes daily for 15 years with occasional alcohol intake.
The patient was diagnosed with pneumonia and an exacerbation of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease at first admission. Therapy with daily intravenous antibiotics was begun following multiple blood, sputum , and urine cultures. Oral and inhaled bronchodilators were prescribed and oral prednisolone (30 mg) was maintained for 10 days. Since discharge in 2009, he has maintained medical treatments and respiratory rehabilitation. Treatment consists of oral medication, including methylxanthine, a long-acting beta 2 agonist (LABA), with inhaled therapy of a long-acting anticholinergic, inhaled corticosteroid and LABA combination.
The patient's initial chest radiograph, taken by the orthopedic department in 2006, showed apical linear fibrotic opacity with cystic changes similar to sequelae of pulmonary tuberculosis (). A nother chest radiograph, taken in the pulmonology department at first admission in 2009, showed patchy consolidations and ground-glass opacities in both lungs, and apical fibrosis with bullous changes suggesting stable tuberculosis and emphysema in both lungs (). Over the next 8 years, the patient's serial chest radiographs () and HR