A 58-year-old Iranian woman was visited in our gastroenterology clinic, Sari, Iran in October 2012. She complained of progressive dysphagia to solid food for about four months accompanied by postprandial back radiating and epigastric pain. She did not seek any medical treatment during this period. For the last four months she also experienced loss of appetite and significant weight loss (15 kg). There was no history of smoking, alcohol consumption, and previous surgery. Her medical history showed only prominent symptoms of gastroesophageal reflux disease. The family history was not positive for malignancies. On admission, she was 157 cm tall, weighed 45 kg and was moderately poor nourished (BMI=18 kg/m2 ). Physical examination revealed no abnormalities, except for cachexia, and pallor in conjunctivae.Esophagogastroduodenoscopy (EGD) showed a red irregular round and plate like lesion with raised borders at midesophagus (29-31 cm from dental arc, ). Furthermore another huge mass was seen beginning from the distal esophagus extending to cardia and fundus ( & ).
The main bulk of the tumor could be inspected in the retroversion maneuver in fundus. This mass was very fragile and bled either spontaneously and on touch. Separate biopsy samples were taken from both the above described lesions. Accordingly pathological evaluation was performed by two experienced pathologists. Sections from the esophageal lesion displayed a malignant epithelial neoplasm composed of infiltrative nests of pleomorphic squamous cells with focally preserved inter-cellular bridges and a little keratin pearls formation. The cells had atypical oval hyperchromatic to vesicular nuclei with conspicuous nucleoli and modest eosinophilic cytoplasm. Sections from the distal esophageal tumor showed infiltrative irregular medium-sized glands lined by pleomorphic columnar cells. The cells characterized by mildly hyperchromatic enlarged nuclei with eosinophilic cytoplasm. Taking the above histological findings into account, moderately differentiated squamous cell carcinoma and well differentiated adenocarcinoma were diagnosed ( & ).
Thoraco-abdominal computed tomography showed high density pulmonary nodules in right