A 71-year-old female with a pertinent history of essential hypertension, anxiety, and hypothyroidism presented with acute-onset abdominal pain. The pain described the typical characteristics of pancreatitis, with sharp mid-gastric pain radiating towards the back, without any significant relieving factors, accompanied by unremitting nausea and vomiting. The patient did not have any recent history of smoking, drinking, or any recreational drug use. Her home medications included losartan, Synthroid, Xanax, and bupropion.
Clinical history did not yield any relevant information, apart from the fact that the patient had presented with similar acute symptoms of pancreatitis approximately four weeks prior to this episode. She was conservatively managed with intravenous fluids and pain control with the resolution of symptoms. The patient was investigated for common causes of pancreatitis, including ultrasound and computed tomography (CT) of the abdomen, lipid profile, drug screen, and hepatitis panel. The workup to rule out the common causes of pancreatitis was negative.
The patient subsequently improved and was discharged home to be followed by the gastroenterology for further investigations, including magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the abdomen and immunoglobulin (IgG4) levels, to rule out uncommon causes of pancreatitis. Of note, before discharge home, she was resumed on losartan at the same dose.
In this admission, the patient presented with similar complains and the repeat CT abdomen with intravenous (IV) contrast redemonstrated acute pancreatic inflammation with mild peri-pancreatic fluid accumulation without any evidence of necrosis and ductal dilatation (Figure ). The ultrasound of the abdomen was also repeated, which did not yield any evidence of cholelithiasis and the common bile duct measured 4 mm in size. The patient was evaluated by gastroenterology and was managed symptomatically. MRI the abdomen did not demonstrate intra or extrahepatic biliary ductal pathology, cholelithiasis, or choledocholithiasis. No evidence of abnormal pancreatic ductal pathology was noted. The patient was ultimately taken off losartan and started on calcium channel blocker for