A 48-year-old Caucasian female was found unresponsive at the scene of a house fire with burns to the face [<1% total body surface area (BSA)] and inhalation injury. She was intubated via endotracheal tube at an outside facility and subsequently transferred to our burn center for definitive care. The initial bronchoscopy showed diffuse carbonaceous sputum with pale friable mucosa extending throughout the airways distally. The patient was intubated for airway protection, which required adequate sedation and neuromuscular blockade. Due to the inability of the patient to provide a detailed medical history, the patient’s sister and psychiatrist supplied the relevant information, which included a diagnosis of severe depression with psychotic features. On admission, the patient’s list of home medications included paliperidone palmitate 234 mg once monthly as an intramuscular injection, paliperidone 6 mg by mouth daily, citalopram 40 mg by mouth daily, trazodone 150 mg by mouth at bedtime, risperidone 2 mg by mouth twice daily, and clonazepam 1 mg by mouth twice daily. The patient had no known drug allergies or other relevant medical history. She was a chronic smoker and substance abuser, but on admission the urine drug screen was negative.
Upon admission to the burn ICU, the patient had a mild leukocytosis (white blood cell count 15.8 k/mm3) but was afebrile, normotensive, and demonstrated adequate urine output (>0.5 mL/kg/hr). She had evidence of acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS), with a ratio of partial pressure arterial oxygen and fraction of inspired oxygen of less than 200, and was started on pressure control ventilation. Due to the severity of the inhalation injury and the need for prolonged mechanical ventilation with aggressive pulmonary hygiene, a tracheostomy was performed on the second hospital day (HD). Post-operatively, the patient became febrile with an associated tachycardia. By HD 5, the patient expressed thick yellow secretions during suctioning and on physical examination diffuse rhonchi were