A 50-year-old male presented to the Cardiology department due to edema of the legs, erythema, pain, abdominal swelling, and was hospitalized with pulmonary hypertension, right heart failure, atrial fibrillation, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, and cellulitis. The patient had a history of appendectomy when he was 20 years old and had been stabbed in the abdomen when he was 35 years old. He had been stabbed twice, and 1 h after the stabbing, he had been successfully treated by general surgery. The patient had been discharged 1 week postoperatively. The patient also had a 4-year history of smoking during his adolescent period. Five years earlier, the patient (age 45 years) had presented to the Cardiology outpatient service and was diagnosed with New York Heart Association (NYHA) Class II shortness of breath. On echocardiography (echo), his right heart cavity dimensions were mildly increased and pulmonary artery systolic pressure was found to be 45 mmHg. After treatment, his complaints regressed completely. Three years earlier (age 47 years), he had been admitted to the Pulmonology department with abdominal and bilateral leg swelling, and shortness of breath (NYHA Class III) complaints. CT thorax was performed and he was diagnosed with right heart failure. But dilated IVC was missed or might have been accepted as secondary dilatation to pulmonary hypertension and right heart failure. Intravenous diuretics, steroids, teophylline, and inhaled bronchodilator treatment had been administered. Subsequently, his complaints regressed. His echo findings at that period of time were as follows: Left ventricular ejection fraction 65%, Grade I diastolic dysfunction, normal left heart cavities, significantly enlarged right heart cavities, pulmonary artery systolic pressure 70 mmHg, and Grade 2–3 tricuspid failure. He was being closely monitored by the pulmonologist for pulmonary hypertension. One year earlier (age 49 years), he had been admitted to the Pulmonology department due to newly developed high ventricular rate atrial fibrillation (168 bpm) resulting in significant abdominal ascites, diffuse edema