A 28-year-old man with no relevant medical history attended the School of Dentistry of the University of Granada reporting strong oral pain after a weekend of abundant alcohol and tobacco consumption and lack of rest. Clinical examination revealed multiple ulcers covered with a grayish pseudomembrane in the palatal rugae, papillary necrosis at teeth 21 and 22, and ulceration throughout the gingival margin and gingival papillae of the second quadrant (). Periodontal probing was not possible due to the intense pain.
Panoramic X-ray examination of the patients ruled out maxillary bone involvement in both cases (). Several exfoliative cytology specimens were obtained from necrotic palatal gingival papillae using sterile swabs. Samples from both cases were stained with hematoxylin-eosin to evaluate cytological features and the presence of bacteria. Histological analysis evidenced acute inflammatory cells and polymicrobial microbiota with a wide variety of bacterial morphotypes and forms compatible with spirochetes and fusobacteria (). Following Mombelli’s technique [], blotting paper tips (No. 30) were inserted in the gingival sulcus for microbiological culture of the crevicular fluid in regenerated Schaedler broth supplemented with hemin and vitamin K. The isolation and identification procedures yielded no conclusive results.
After the two cases were diagnosed with necrotizing stomatitis and written informed consent was obtained, 3% hydrogen peroxide was gently applied to the lesions using sterile swabs, for debridement of the necrotic areas. Both patients were prescribed oral 875/125 mg amoxicillin/clavulanic acid and 600 mg ibuprofen every 8 hours and oral rinses with 0.2% chlorhexidine every 12 hours. Both cases showed a rapid response to treatment, and a major improvement in symptoms was observed at 48 hours, with almost complete resolution of the ulcerated areas, which were covered by a layer of fibrin, and the detachment of necrotic areas with partial decapitation of gingival papillae ( and ). Patients were recommended to return to their normal oral hygiene habits as soon as possible.