A 15-year-old female of Saudi origin presented with persistent fever for more than one month duration. Over a period of one year, she had productive cough, weight loss and night sweats. She had no relative past medical history and was a non-smoker.
Respiratory examination revealed marked decrease air entry with dull percussion of the left upper lung zone. Physical examination did not reveal clubbing, peripheral lymphadenopathy or hepatosplenomegaly.
Laboratory investigation revealed anemia and severe leucopenia. Chest X-ray showed a persistent homogenous opacity occupying left upper lung zone for more than 5 weeks (). Chest computed tomography (CT) scan images showed consolidation and collapse of the left upper lung lobe with air bronchogram and pleural thickening (). CT guided biopsy was insignificant.
Bronchoscopy revealed normal macroscopic appearance of airways and absence of endo-bronchial lesions or foreign body.
The internal medicine and infectious disease team suggested tuberculosis (TB) pneu-monitis as an initial diagnosis and started the patient on anti TB treatment in addition to antibiotics without improvement over a period of one month (if TB is suspected then acid-fast bacilli stain and mycobacterial culture should have been done).
Patient’s conditions deteriorated and she became severely ill with persistent fever, significant weight loss and marked leucopenia. Based on clinical picture and failure to response to medical treatment, we thought that this is a case of lung gangrene that will soon develop cavitation into the consolidated lobe. We decided to perform exploration and lobectomy. The patient underwent left postero-lateral thoracotomy which revealed a hepatized and necrotic left upper lung lobe with extensive adhesions to chest wall, left upper lobectomy was carried out. There was neither mediastinal nor hilar lymphadenopathy. No pleural effusion and no pleural nodules or any other lesions.
Histopathological examination showed Hodgkin lymphoma (HL), nodular sclerosis type. Images () of lung tissue showed sheets of polymorph cells separated by fibrous septa; showed the sheets composed of