We report the case of a seventy four year old man who presented to the Emergency Department complaining of back pain of two months duration. This was a dull mid- thoracic back pain with radiation to the chest and upper abdomen. It was initially intermittent associated with exertion, but now was increasing in frequency and severity to the extent that it was interfering with his daily living activities. There was no history of trauma. His family history was unremarkable.
His only significant past medical history was that of hypercholesterolaemia for which he was prescribed a statin by his general practitioner. He underwent surgery for varicose veins in his right leg 7 years previously. His regular medications also included aspirin. He had no known drug allergies and smoked 10 cigarettes per day. He was a retired farmer who lived with his wife and was in good physical condition from an anaesthetic point of view (ASA grade I). On examination of his back the overlying skin was unremarkable although a mild thoracic kyphosis was present. Physical examination revealed conspicuous tenderness and percussion pain in the thoracic region. The straight leg raising test was negative on both sides. His neurological system was intact on examination. Systemic examination was also unremarkable.
Laboratory studies including total blood count, sedimentation rate, C-reactive protein, electrolyte values, and alkaline phosphate levels were within the normal ranges. Chest radiography showed widening of the right paratracheal stripe, of concern for lymphadenopathy. There were also calcified left hilar lymph nodes. Plain radiographs of the thoracic spine showed mid thoracic kyphosis with loss of distinction of the posterior cortices of T7 and T8.
An MRI of the cervical and thoracic spine was carried out [,]. This showed an infiltrative process involving the vertebral bodies of T6 and T7, associated with expansion and some destruction. There was extensive demineralisation and destruction of the vertebral body of T6. The process extended inferiorly into the vertebral body of T7, and appeared to cross the disc space.