A 68-year-old man visited our emergency room due to recurrent syncope. He had experienced four episodes of syncope with dizziness and chest discomfort during the prior 2 months. The episodes were evoked when he was preparing his boat for sailing in early morning. On admission, his mentality was clear. Vital signs showed blood pressure (BP) of 120/80 mmHg, pulse rate of 60 beats/min, respiratory rate of 20 breaths/min and body temperature of 36.5℃. He had a 10-year history of diabetes mellitus with application of oral hypoglycemic agents. He had stopped smoking 40 years previously. He drank 1 bottle of soju per week. Physical examination, chest radiography and laboratory findings were unremarkable. The initial electrocardiogram (ECG) showed sinus rhythm with T inversion in the V5 and V6 leads. Transthoracic echocardiogram revealed left ventricular hypertrophy, mildly decreased ejection fraction, and hypokinetic left ventricular wall motion. Twenty four hour Holter monitoring showed normal sinus rhythm and infrequent premature ventricular complexes (PVCs). Coronary angiography revealed 70% stenosis at proximal left anterior descending artery (LAD) (). Stenosis persisted after intracoronary nitrates administration (). We planned medical treatment instead of coronary angioplasty. The tilt table test and brain magnetic resonance angiography were unremarkable. The patient was discharged and regarded as an unexplained syncope. After 4 days, he was readmitted because of severe dizziness and we performed 48-hour Holter monitoring. During his second admission, syncope occurred for about 3 minutes. Fortunately, he completely recovered without any injury. The Holter monitoring during the syncope episode revealed ST-segment elevation followed by PVCs (). Polymorphic ventricular tachycardia (VT) started with the PVCs () and degenerated into ventricular fibrillation (). We suspected that the ventricular arrhythmia resulted from transient myocardial ischemia by variant angina, because STsegment elevation was seen before VT and syncope occurred in the morning. A repeat coronary angiography was carried out for a spasm provocation test