A 30-year-old male (height: 175 cm, body weight: 105 kg) presented with fever for 6 days, and abdominal pain and diarrhea for 2 days. He was admitted to the gastroenterology department of an outside hospital. He did not have any history of underlying disease and had recently stopped smoking. He worked for 2 weeks at another hospital where a patient diagnosed with MERS. His initial vital signs and results of initial laboratory examination were unavailable to us, because he was admitted to an outside hospital. However, according to information from that hospital, physical examination on admission to that hospital revealed normal vital signs (except for fever) and initial laboratory examination showed mild elevation of liver enzymes. In that hospital, he firstly underwent chest and abdominal radiographs and abdominal CT for further evaluation of abdominal pain. The initial chest radiograph, which was taken 6 days after the onset of fever, showed a patchy increased opacity in the left lower lung zone, retrocardiac area (). Abdominal CT showed no specific finding in abdominal and pelvic organs; however, a patchy area of consolidation with an air-bronchogram was detected in the left lower lobe of the lung, which was mainly peripherally located (). Conservative treatment with intravenous fluid was used for abdominal pain. Although he did not initially have any respiratory symptoms, he began coughing 9 days after the onset of fever. Because of this new respiratory symptom, occupational history, and a recent MERS outbreak in Korea, he underwent laboratory examination for MERS. A follow-up chest radiograph, which was taken 10 days after the onset of fever, showed newly developed patchy areas of ill-defined increased opacity in the right upper lung zone and increased extent of the previously detected consolidation in the left lower lung zone (). A chest CT scan performed on the same day showed multifocal patchy areas of nodular consolidations orgwith ground-glass opacity (GGO) halo and nodular GGO lesions in both upper lobes, which were mainly