In August, 4 months before presentation, a 35-year-old white woman of Scots and English descent developed reddish urine for several days followed by eruption of vesicles and blisters on the dorsal surfaces of her hands and fingers, the sides of her nose, and her upper anterior chest, knees, and legs. She worked as a landscaping contractor and noticed that lesions occurred on areas exposed to sunlight, but application of sunscreen neither diminished the rate at which new lesions appeared, nor promoted healing of older lesions. Her skin was fragile in areas of the lesions and the lesions healed slowly, often with scarring. She also developed dark brown pigmentation and the growth of fine black hair over her cheeks. She had no history of liver disease, iron abnormalities, or related problems. She consumed three glasses of wine each week and had smoked electronic cigarettes for approximately 6 months, having changed from tobacco cigarettes. She took duloxetine 60 mg daily. She had donated three units of blood for transfusion, but none in several years. She had never taken supplemental iron or received erythrocyte transfusion. There was no family history of abnormalities similar to hers. She had no menses in the 12 months before presentation due to the effects of a contraceptive vaginal ring (NuvaRing®; etonogestrel/ethinyl estradiol). A dermatologist performed a punch biopsy of two skin lesions on her left forefinger and referred her for hematology evaluation and treatment.
Physical examination confirmed the presence of new vesicles and bullae with erythematous bases, some as large as 1 cm in diameter, and older lesions in various stages of erosion, resolution, and scarring in the anatomical distribution described above. Lesions were most prominent on the dorsal surfaces of the hands and fingers (a). Milia were scattered over areas affected with bullous lesions and were especially prominent on skin overlying finger joints. There was moderate hyperpigmentation over her zygomatic arches and upper anterior chest. Hypertrich