A 60-year-old woman presented with exertional dyspnea, with mild limitation during ordinary physical activities. An electrocardiogram revealed a complete left bundle branch block and sinus tachycardia. Doppler echocardiography showed a severely dilated left ventricle (LV; 61 and 71 mm in systole and diastole, respectively), and a mildly dilated left atrium (40 mm). The LV ejection fraction (LVEF) was 30%. Cardiac catheterization revealed dilatation of the LV, and the coronary arteries appeared normal. Chagas disease serology was negative. Carvedilol, losartan and furosemide were then prescribed, with clinical improvement.
The patient had no previous history of smoking or alcohol abuse. Her past surgical history included a cholecystectomy due to symptomatic biliary lithiasis complicated with pancreatitis. She had hypothyroidism and used levothyroxin 125 µg per day. Two siblings had been diagnosed with dilated cardiomyopathy, while another brother had died suddenly in adolescence.
One year after the onset of symptoms, the patient was admitted to the intensive care unit with cardiogenic shock, and received dobutamine, with temporary clinical improvement. Soon after discharge, she underwent cardiac resynchronization therapy due to refractory heart failure. Despite this, over the following months she presented with additional episodes of cardiogenic shock, and became dependent on dobutamine. Two years after the onset of symptoms, she was referred to a university hospital for cardiac transplantation. Upon clinical examination, she had cold extremities, slow capillary refilling, arterial hypotension, signs of increased central venous pressure, tachycardia, a third heart sound, and hepatomegaly. There was no lower limbs edema. Doppler echocardiography revealed a dilated LV (68 mm and 74 mm in systole and diastole, respectively) and an enlarged left atrium (44 mm); the LVEF was 18%. Biochemical and hematological tests were normal.
Under the presumed clinical diagnosis of idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy, orthotopic cardiac transplantation was performed and the patient was put on immunosuppressive drugs: prednisone, cyclosporine, and mycophenolate mofetil. Post-operative thoracic computed tomography revealed bilateral hemothorax and pulmonary atelectasis