A 56-year-old female presented to the Emergency Department after a fall. The patient reported that she had been having a fever for the last 2 days and there was associated dizziness which led to the fall. There was no loss of consciousness or head injury secondary to the fall. She also reported a non-productive cough, several episodes of non-bilious, non-bloody vomiting, and two episodes of diarrhea.
The patient's past medical history was that of chronic ischemic heart disease; type two diabetes mellitus, hyperlipidemia and hypertension. She did not have any known drug allergies. She denied drinking alcohol, smoking or use of any illicit drugs. Her travel history including traveling to India three months ago. On physical examination she looked diaphoretic, lethargic and in pain, with a blood pressure of 125/95 mmHg, pulse rate of 127 beats per minute, respiratory rate of 20 per minute, oxygen saturation of 97% on room air and a temperature of 39.7°C. An abdominal examination revealed that she was tender in the right lower quadrant and right upper quadrant with no rebound tenderness or guarding, and Murphy's sign was negative. Examination of the other systems did not reveal any abnormalities.
Based on the clinical history and examination the working diagnosis of pneumonia and possible acute appendicitis or diverticulitis was made. She was given intravenous normal saline fluid, intravenous antibiotics and analgesia. The electrocardiogram showed sinus tachycardia with nonspecific T wave inversion. The chest X-ray showed clear lungs fields and the heart size was normal. A renal panel, liver panel, full blood count, C-reactive protein, prolactin, and urine analysis were ordered. The patient had transaminitis, markedly raised inflammatory markers, and thrombocytopenia. The patient's lab results are shown in .
Patient was sent for a computed tomography (CT) of the abdomen and pelvis with intravenous contrast to rule out appendicitis or diverticulitis. shows the CT findings for this patient. The results showed a linear radio dense