A 35-year-old male was hospitalized because of left-sided upper back pain radiating to the rib cage. The pain had begun 3 weeks earlier and had been progressively getting worse. For the previous 2 days, the pain was exacerbated by deep inspiration and movement and was unresponsive to over-the-counter analgesics. The patient denied any history of trauma. The patient did not have any significant medical history. He denied any personal or family history of cancer. He smoked one pack of cigarette per day for the last 15 years. A review of systems was negative for fever, chills, shortness of breath, weight loss, abdominal pain, extremity weakness or paresthesias. Physical examination revealed a temperature of 36.5°C, blood pressure of 120/80 mm Hg, heart rate of 70 beats per minute, and respiratory rate of 18 breaths per minute. An examination of the thorax showed focal tenderness on the posterolateral arc of the left sixth rib. No lymphadenopathy or hepatosplenomegaly was noted. The remainder of the examination was unremarkable. Complete blood count and other laboratory tests were within normal range. Radiography revealed a focal osteolytic lesion in the posterior arc of the left sixth rib (fig. ). Computed tomography (CT) of the chest showed an osteolytic lesion of about 1.6 × 1.1 cm in size with perilesional sclerotic change and inner cortical destruction at the posterior arc of the left sixth rib (fig. ). There was no abnormal finding on both lung and mediastinum. A skeletal survey was negative for any other bone involvement. Given this finding, our differential diagnosis included malignant or benign lesions originating from the bone and metastatic disease from unknown origin. An infectious disease was ruled out because the patient lacked any evidence of infection such as local inflammation, fever or leukocytosis. For the further differential diagnosis, positron emission tomography (PET) was conducted. The maximum standardized uptake value (SUVmax) of the lesion at the left sixth