The patient, a 4-year-old boy, was referred to the rehabilitation medicine department for evaluation of facial deformities and posture abnormalities. He was born prematurely at 35 weeks via cesarean section due to the premature rupture of fetal membranes. The mother was healthy and did not report the use of alcohol, tobacco, or drugs during pregnancy. The family history was non-contributory. At birth, it was noticed that he had a congenital cardiac defect; ventral septal defect, atrial septal defect, and patent ductus arteriosus, for which he underwent surgical treatment 6 months after birth. According to his mother's description, he was otherwise healthy with normal development. After performing a careful physical examination, several dysmorphic features were noted including asymmetrical facial skeleton, left facial weakness, and right microtia (). Additionally, uvular bifida was noticed when the inside of his mouth was examined (). His neck was relatively short, the right shoulder blade was located relatively more superior than the left, and the range of motion of the shoulder was limited during abduction (). Moreover, the right pectoralis major appeared shrunken, and thoracic asymmetry was confirmed, where the right nipple was relatively lower than the left (). In addition to these malformations, the mirror movements of the opposite hand during voluntary movements of each hand were observed. Additional neurological examination of the patient showed left facial palsy, but no ocular movement disorder was observed. Furthermore, muscular strength of the limbs was normal, and pathological reflexes and upper motor neuron signs were not observed.
According to the Korean-Wechsler Intelligence Scale administered to evaluate the cognitive function of the patient, verbal intelligence quotient (IQ) index was 71, performance IQ index was 86, and the overall IQ index was 76. Cervical spine and brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), and cervical and thoracic computerized tomography (CT) were performed to rule out the additional CNS malformations and musculoskeletal anomalies. Cervical spine and brain MRI showed medullary neuroschisis without pontine or cerebellar hypoplasia