A 53-year-old African-American man with a history of peptic ulcer disease, anxiety, renal insufficiency (baseline creatinine level, 1.7 mg/dL) was admitted for gross hematuria and left flank pain. He works as a mechanic, is married, and was a former smoker. His family history is significant for prostate cancer and high blood pressure. He was recently diagnosed with CML during an admission for weight loss, easy bruising, and fatigue. A bone marrow biopsy showed hyperplastic granulocytes with a maturation pattern consistent with CML. Further genetic analysis showed cells with a translocation between chromosomes 9 and 22, the genetic hallmark of CML. The cells were also positive for the genetic product of the translocation, a defective or deregulated tyrosine kinase, also known as the BCR-ABL protein, which is essential to the pathogenesis of the disorder. During that admission, he developed hematuria and bloody stools. A computed tomography scan of his abdomen and pelvis showed mild left hydronephrosis without obvious mass or stone, and his hematuria resolved. His gastrointestinal bleeding work-up included an esophagogastroduodenoscopy and colonoscopy. Several polypectomies resulted in prolonged bleeding, which ultimately resolved.
Before definitive treatment for his CML could be started, he again developed hematuria with mild left flank pain. Upper tract imaging was negative for an overt renal mass, and a cystoscopy found gross blood from the left ureteral orifice (). Ureteroscopy was performed, but no obvious cause of bleeding was found. Cytology showed left renal pelvis urine abundant in acute and chronic inflammatory cells with no evidence of malignancy.
Because of persistent bleeding without a treatable source, the patient was sent to interventional radiology for an angiography examination. A pseudoaneurysm was noted in the left renal artery at a small branch in the lower pole, and it was subsequently embolized (). The patient's bleeding stopped and his hematocrit remained stable until 2 days later when he became hypotensive because of sudden blood volume loss. He required vasopressors