A 36-year-old Hispanic male presented to the vascular clinic on February 4, 2015, with a history of progressive left lower extremity pain with walking for 1 month. The patient noted a marked decrease in his walking distance over 1 month before his evaluation. At presentation, he was able to ambulate 50–75 feet only before the onset of left calf pain. On January 8, 2015, the patient underwent bilateral varicocelectomy for bilateral varicoceles associated with primary infertility. He admitted to having complications postoperatively, consisting of a large left groin hematoma and left leg pain. The hematoma was treated conservatively with observation and antibiotics. The left groin hematoma resolved 1 week postoperatively, but the left leg pain was increasing, especially with ambulation. He was assured by the operating surgeon that his surgery was successful and that the leg pain was temporary. However, the patient presented to our vascular surgery clinic, seeking a second opinion. His past medical history was unremarkable. He denied any history of tobacco use, hypercholesterolemia, hypertension, diabetes mellitus, or lower extremity trauma. He was without any systemic complaints. At the time of presentation, the patient denied taking any medication. The physical examination was remarkable for normal upper extremity pulses and blood pressures. The lower extremity examination was remarkable for bilateral groin scars, no swelling or hematoma, absent left femoral and pedal pulses, and normal right femoral and pedal pulses. There were no motor or sensory deficits. Ankle-brachial indices were 0.5 on the left and 1.0 on the right. Cardiac and other investigations were normal, although these do not exclude arterial emboli completely. Computerized tomographic (CT) angiogram was requested, and the patient was asked to bring a copy of his previous surgery report. CT angiogram showed complete occlusion of the left common femoral artery up to its bifurcation with normal runoff (). The varicocelectomy surgical report denied any vascular complications apart from minor intraoperative bleeding from the left side controlled by stitches