Patient 2 was a 45-year-old male patient who presented with a T3 N0 M0 recurrent squamous cell carcinoma involving the entire lower lip, chin, neck, cheek and mandible. He had undergone previous resections of his lower lip carcinoma and a left tonsillectomy a year before. He had received postoperative radiation and chemotherapy and presented with a recurrence of his cancer as well as osteoradionecrosis of the mandible requiring composite resection of his tumor and bilateral neck dissection.
The patient’s mandibular and intraoral mucosal defect was reconstructed with a free fibula flap from the right leg with a skin paddle measuring 17 × 8 cm along with a 2.4-mm reconstruction plate. A closing wedge osteotomy was performed at the area of the mandibular symphysis on the fibula to allow for the bend of the fibula into the contours of the mandible. An ALT flap from the right leg with a skin paddle measuring 14 × 22 cm was used to reconstruct the external soft tissue. The left lingual artery and the internal jugular vein served as recipient vessels for the free fibula flap. The ALT flap was anastomosed to the ipsilateral facial artery and the internal jugular vein. As in the previous case, a tensor fascia lata sling anchored bilaterally on the anterior aspect of the zygoma was used to suspend the lower lip reconstruction and restore oral competence ().
On postoperative day 3 the patient presented with an acute arterial thrombosis of the ALT artery. The arterial anastomosis was revised and the left ascending pharyngeal artery was employed as a recipient vessel for reanastomosis to the ALT artery. Despite revision of the anastomosis, the flap progressed on to total necrosis likely due to the no reflow phenomenon. The patient received a second ALT flap from the left thigh with a 14 × 26 cm skin paddle. An end-to-side anastomosis between the ALT artery and the right common carotid artery was performed. The right internal jugular vein served as recipient vessel for the venous anastomosis. The right neck was chosen since