A 16-year-old female presented to the Department of Periodontics and Implantology with the chief complains of bleeding from gums and bad breath since past 1–2 years and difficulty in taking any hot, spicy and hard food since childhood. The patient gave a history of spontaneous bleeding from gingiva since 5–6 years and frequent ulcerations in the oral cavity. A detailed medical and dental history of the patient revealed a history of the formation of blisters all over the body of the patient within hours after birth, and which had started to regress after the onset of puberty. The blisters appeared as bullous lesions which led to the formation of ulcers. The ulcers healed with scarring and milia formation. The patient was poorly built and nourished and also complained of frequent constipation and difficulty in urination since childhood.
Blisters on buccal mucosa and areas of depapillation of tongue were seen during intra-oral examination []. A detailed periodontal examination showed an excessive amount of plaque and calculus deposition. The gingival tissue was red, edematous, ulcerated, and bled easily on probing. The characteristic thin film of coagulated blood was present on upper anterior teeth. Grade 2 mobility was present in respect to 11, 12, 21, 22, 31, 32, 41, 42. Pathologic migration was also seen in respect to upper anterior teeth []. The panoramic radiograph of the patient showed generalized extensive horizontal bone loss with some areas having vertical defects [].
The patient was referred to Department of Dermatology, SMS Medical College, Jaipur, where a detailed physical examination revealed that bullous lesions with scarring and milia formation were present all over the body. Some dystrophy of nails was also observed. The skin of patient had characteristic cigarette paper-like appearance with some atrophy. The patient was diagnosed with EB dystrophic on the basis of clinical findings [].
The patient was subjected to hematological investigations and a punch biopsy of the skin lesion