A 43-year-old female with no significant past medical history presented with a chief complaint of worsening respiratory symptoms that included purulent nasal secretions, dysphagia, mild dysphonia and dyspnea with chronic cough. The symptoms had begun approximately 2 years previously and had failed to completely resolve in spite of multiple rounds of empiric antibiotic therapy for a presumed bacterial upper respiratory infection. She denied previous tobacco use and had no pertinent family history. Her physical exam was notable for erythematous nasal mucosa and a small anterior septal perforation. Blood work demonstrated a white blood cell count (WBC) of 11,400/uL (neutrophils 93.8%) and an erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR) of 11 mm/h. Electrolytes were all within normal limits and a random glucose was 96 mg/dL. Head and chest computed tomography (CT) showed air-fluid levels in the bilateral maxillary sinuses and irregular thickening along the left lateral and posterior tracheal wall just above the level of the medial clavicles but was negative for lung parenchymal changes.
Given these imaging findings in the setting of worsening dyspnea, the patient underwent a laryngoscopic examination, which revealed subglottic crusting with diffuse purulent secretions, anterolateral cricoid inflammation, and vocal cord inflammation. Her nasal cavity also demonstrated thick purulent secretions in the middle meatus bilaterally extending to the nasopharynx. Biopsies of the trachea, subglottis, and nasal septum demonstrated purulent, atypical squamous epithelium and necrotic tissue with bacterial colonies. Cultures from these sites were positive for methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) and Pseudomonas aeruginosa but showed no fungal growth. As such, the patient was treated with intravenous vancomycin and cefepime in addition to steroids and nebulized treatments. Her breathing significantly improved during the course of her hospitalization and she was subsequently discharged with plans to continue outpatient intravenous antibiotics for an additional 2 months.
Several months later, the patient returned for follow-up and was found to have similar upper airway symptoms despite completing her antibiotic regimen. She again