A 71-year-old male patient had several operations after the diagnosis of gastric cancer. The first operation was laparoscopy assisted total gastrectomy with R-Y esophagojejunostomy 6 years ago. Because of anastomosis leakage after initial operation, he received esophagostomy and feeding jejunostomy, followed by esophageal reconstruction with right colon interposition. He consecutively had colon infarction requiring esophagostomy and feeding ileostomy. Four years later he received esophageal reconstruction with left colon interposition, followed by cervical esophagocolojejunostomy, which made his oral feeding possible. He is an ex-smoker, and had chronic obstructive pulmonary disease requiring regular use of anticholinergic inhaler.
He initially presented with purulent sputum for several days, and admitted to medical ward for 2-week antibiotic treatment against community-acquired pneumonia. The initial chest computed tomography (CT) scan after the admission showed pneumonic consolidation at right lower lung. Although it also revealed the dilatation of interposed colon compressing the trachea and heart, the patient did not complain any symptoms associated with compression. After completing treatment, he was transferred to the surgery department for feeding jejunostomy because of recurrent episodes of aspiration during hospital stay. However, he restarted to have purulent sputum and eventually had respiratory failure requiring mechanical ventilation in the intensive care unit (ICU). The chest CT scan after admission to the ICU () showed pneumonic consolidation at both lower lungs and massive dilatation of the substernal interposed colon compressing the trachea. We believed that continuing silent aspiration of secretion caused aspiration pneumonia, and compromised airway hindered expectoration of sputum leading to respiratory failure. Antibiotic treatment against hospital-acquired pneumonia was started.
Although percutaneous dilatational tracheostomy was performed for long-term airway maintenance, he again suffered from respiratory distress and was re-intubated. A series of the chest CT scans was reviewed among intensivists, pulmonologists, thoracic surgeons, and radiologists in order to manage the dilatation of the interposed colon compressing the trachea. The dilated inter