A 52-year-old Saudi woman presented to our outpatient dermatology clinic complaining of multiple painful bumps on her trunk and upper extremities, which had been present for the last 25 years. Recently, the lesions had become more painful to touch and increased in both size and number. She also had a history of uterine leiomyomatosis for which she underwent hysterectomy 17 years ago. A family history revealed that her mother, 2 sisters and 2 maternal aunts also had a history of multiple uterine leiomyomatosis.
A physical examination revealed several smooth, nonmobile nodules that were reddish to brown in color, arranged in a cluster on her right arm (fig. ), left forearm and trunk. The nodules were both firm and tender to touch, ranging in diameter from 0.5 to 2 cm. The most prominent and painful nodules were removed and submitted for histological analysis, which showed a relatively well-circumscribed dermal proliferation of intersecting fascicles of spindle cells (fig. ). The cells exhibited cigar-shaped nuclei and growth in between collagen bundles. The findings were consistent with a diagnosis of benign dermal leiomyoma.
Based on the patient's unique clinical presentation in conjunction with her surgical and family histories, a diagnosis of Reed's syndrome was confirmed. The patient was referred for genetic counseling and for evaluation of renal malignancy. Renal ultrasound and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) were negative for renal pathology. No symptoms indicative of renal cell cancer were found.
The patient returned to the clinic after 5 years, complaining of more painful lesions.
In this instance, the patient's dermal lesions on her right arm were treated with liquid nitrogen cryotherapy. The therapy consisted of two 30-second freeze thaw cycles with a 1 mm margin. After 2 weeks of cryotherapy, the patient reported a decrease in the pain and size of the lesions (fig. ). One year after cryotherapy treatment, the patient reported nonrecurrence of the lesions, with absence of pain at the site of the lesions.