A 50-year-old male patient of low socioeconomic status reported to the outpatient department of Oral Medicine and Radiology, with a chief complaint of a painless, slow-growing swelling in the right maxillary teeth region for the past 5 months. The swelling was initially small and had gradually increased to the present size. There was no associated history of trauma and pain. The medical history was noncontributory. The patient gave negative history for smoking and other deleterious habits. Extraoral examination revealed diffuse swelling in the anterior region of the right maxilla. The swelling extended anteroposteriorly from the tip of the nose to 3 cm lateral to the right ala of the nose, and suprainferiorly extended up to the ala-tragus line to the lower border of the upper lip. The swelling caused mild deviation of the tip of the nose to the left side with obliteration of the right nasolabial fold. On palpation, the swelling was nontender and firm in consistency []. A single, firm, fixed, and tender right submental lymph node was also appreciated on palpation. On intraoral clinical examination, a lobulated, pigmented (purplish-black) growth, measuring 5 × 4 cm2 was noticed between the maxillary right central incisor and the maxillary right first molar. The growth was seen to involve the marginal, attached, and interdental gingival region on the labiobuccal aspect of the maxillary alveolus. However, there was no palatal extension of the growth. Palpatory findings were suggestive of a firm, nontender growth, which bled when probed. The maxillary right canine and the first and second premolars were clinically missing with slight displacement of the maxillary right lateral incisor []. The patient presented with poor oral hygiene. Thorough clinical examination ruled out the presence of any other primary site of the lesion. A provisional diagnosis of primary OMM was assigned, based on the history and clinical features. Differential diagnosis of lymphoma and squamous cell carcinoma