A 30-year-old female presented to our clinic with an enlarging right parietal region mass. She first noted the lesion 5 years prior to presentation but reported that it began to enlarge after her pregnancy in 2010. She denied any history of a similar lesion. She also denied any history of trauma in that region or cranial irradiation. She complained of altered sensation over the right parietal region without any pain with palpation. She reported no weakness or numbness with her extremities, or any difficulties with coordination or fine finger movements. She denied any seizure-like activity or visual disturbances. On physical examination, she was a well-developed, well-nourished female with no apparent distress. She had no visual field deficits, papilledema or cranial nerve deficits. She displayed no apraxia or coordination difficulties. She had symmetric strength and reflexes in her upper and lower extremities with a normal gait. She did not have any sensory dysfunction.
Her medical history was significant for pulmonary artery stenosis, which was surgically repaired at age 8 and irritable bowel syndrome, which was managed medically. She denied any tobacco use, alcohol consumption or illicit drug use. She did not use contraceptive medications.
CT scans showed a 6.4 cm × 6.4 cm × 4 cm right parietal calvarial mass (Fig. ) with expansion of the diploic space and mass effect on the right parietal lobe.
MRI revealed a lesion centered within the right parietal bone extending to the cranial vertex with corresponding calvarial expansion into the extra-axial space over the right posterior-frontal and parietal lobes with resultant cerebral compression (Fig. ). There was no radiographic evidence of osseous destruction or parenchymal edema. There were no other intra- or extra-axial lesions identified. The decision was made in conjunction with the patients’ wishes to proceed for surgical resection.
Intraoperatively, the bony surface overlying the skull mass was moderately vascular. The protruding skull mass extended approximately 2–2.5 cm above