A 67-year-old woman diagnosed with asymptomatic WM 3 years ago presented with gradual vision deterioration the past 3 months. Ophthalmologic examination revealed bilateral reduction in visual acuity (7/10) and bilateral optic disc swelling which was more prominent in the left eye. Clinical examination was otherwise unremarkable. The patient reported no weight loss or B-symptoms. At the time of initial WM diagnosis, the bone marrow biopsy showed 15% infiltration of M(κ)-clonal lymphoplasmacytic cells and the serum immunofixation was positive for monocloncal IgM, while serum IgM levels were 147 mg/dL. Laboratory examinations were within normal ranges with no signs of anemia or thrombocytopenia, whereas clinical and imaging assessment did not reveal any sites of lymphadenopathy or hepatosplenomegaly. Therefore, the patient was defined as asymptomatic and had been under follow-up every 4 months. Two years postinitial diagnosis a new diagnostic bone marrow biopsy revealed an increase in clonal infiltration up to 40% and genetic tests performed both in the bone marrow and in the serum cell-free DNA did not detect any MYD88 or CXCR4 mutations. The presence of mutations in the aforementioned genes was evaluated by allele-specific polymerase chain reaction and direct sequencing, as previously described.[ Serum IgM levels had been gradually increasing as well with no other concurrent symptomatology and reached at 723 mg/dL at the time of presentation with visual loss (serum M-peak = 0.61 g/dL) (Fig. A). Her medical history was also remarkable of right eye cataract surgery, thyroidectomy, and T4 hormone replacement therapy, but she had no history of migraine. She was also current smoker with mild hypercholesterolemia. Due to the presence of risk factors for cardiovascular disease, we performed initially an extensive workup including electrocardiogram, cardiac ultrasound, sonography of the carotid, and vertebral arteries that revealed no clinically significant abnormalities. Coagulation studies were within normal limits. No serum autoantibodies were detected. Apart from an erythrocyte sedimentation rate