A 42-year-old Caucasian man on chemotherapy with carboplatin and paclitaxel for bronchogenic carcinoma, metastatic to the bone, presented to the Emergency Department complaining of sudden onset of chest pain for 1 h. The patient described the pain as constant, pressure like, located mainly to the retrosternal region, radiating to the neck, and not relieved by over the counter analgesics. He denied experiencing any similar episodes in the past. Past medical history was otherwise unremarkable; the only additional medication he was taking was ondansetron on an as-needed basis for chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting. Family history was negative for premature coronary artery disease, blood dyscrasia, and/or thromboembolic events. The patient denied smoking cigarettes, drinking alcohol, or using any recreational drugs.
Initial vital signs were normal except for mildly elevated blood pressure (blood pressure 145/85 mmHg, temperature 97.3°F, heart rate 68 bpm, respiratory rate 18, 98% arterial oxygen saturation on room air). Complete physical examination was unremarkable. Blood work included complete blood count, basal metabolic panel, lipid panel as well as one set of troponin T, and all were within normal limits.
Electrocardiogram showed ST segment elevation in leads V3 and V4 (); the patient was loaded with aspirin and clopidogrel and rushed to the cardiac catheterization laboratory. Coronary angiography showed a proximal thrombus in the left anterior descending artery with 80% occlusion and embolization with occlusion of the distal portion of the vessel (). Thrombectomy of the proximal thrombus was achieved with no evidence of residual lesions (). Surprisingly, there were no atherosclerotic changes in the coronary arteries, and hence, balloon angioplasty and/or stent placement was not performed. The patient reported sudden relief of pain once the thrombus was removed.
It was challenging to decide which medications to treat this patient with given the lack of atherosclerotic disease or vasospasm. A transthoracic echocardiogram was performed and no structural abnormalities were found including septal defects. Em