A 55-year-old male who had been diagnosed with HIV 1 year previously presented with a 2-week history of intermittent right abdominal pain and gross hematuria. The patient had a 2-year history of sexual intercourse with prostitutes. His medical history included hepatitis B and HIV infections. The HIV infection was well controlled with drugs. He had no significant family, allergic, or smoking history. He had not received any blood transfusions. The physical examination was unremarkable, except for a soft, non-tender mass palpated in his right upper abdomen. A chest X-ray was normal. Ultrasonography detected a mass occupying the upper half of the right kidney. A contrast enhanced computed tomography (CT) scan (Fig. ) of the abdomen revealed a large heterogeneously enhancing mass measuring ∼14 × 10 cm involving the upper right aspect of the right kidney. A microscopic urinalysis revealed red blood cells, but no white cells, and urine cytology findings were negative for urothelial carcinoma. The complete blood count and electrolyte profile were normal. No abnormalities were detected on a renal function test. No bladder tumor was observed on cystoscopy. We diagnosed the renal tumor as a renal cell carcinoma because of the hematuria, the right renal tumor, and the CT scan findings. A retroperitoneal radical nephrectomy was performed. The surgical margins were clean on histology. A microscopic examination of the tumor section revealed that the tumor was composed of round monomorphic cells with vesicular and eccentric nuclei and immature plasma cells (hematoxylin and eosin [H&E] ×200) (Fig. A). A high power view (H&E ×400) revealed plasma cells with basophilic cytoplasm, eccentric nuclei, and typical peripheral condensation of the chromatin (Fig. B). Invasion of tumor cells was observed in the pelvic mucosa, renal parenchyma, and perirenal soft tissue of the kidney. Immunohistochemical studies confirmed that the tumor was composed of plasma cells, as evidenced by their reactivity with antibodies to CD138