A 29-year-old never smoker male patient was referred to the Pulmonary Medicine Outpatient Clinic for evaluation of possible drug resistant TB. The patient had received more than 1 year of anti-TB medications with no symptomatic improvement. Patient history and records were reviewed.
Two years ago, the patient developed insidious onset right sided pleuritic chest pain associated with a dry cough. It was associated with on and off fever with evening rise of temperature. There was a history of intermittent wheezing without any seasonal worsening and patient had noted 3–4 episodes of streaky hemoptysis. There was no history of anorexia or weight loss. The patient was evaluated at a local health care facility wherein based on the findings of a right sided chest radiographic opacity and thoracic ultrasound demonstrating mild right side pleural effusion, a possibility of pleuro-pulmonary TB was considered, and four-drug anti-TB treatment (directly observed treatment regimen) with first-line drugs was initiated. The patient was reassessed after initial regimen, but there was no radiological response. Sputum smear examination for acid-fast bacilli was negative on multiple occasions. Despite 12 months of regular treatment, there was no improvement in symptoms and cough persisted. The patient was initiated on treatment with an intensified anti-TB regimen (Cat II drugs administered on daily basis for 9 months) along with streptomycin and referred to our center.
General physical examination was normal. On chest examination, crackles were audible in the right infrascapular area, and breath sounds were reduced in the lower right hemithorax. Routine blood investigations were normal. Sputum cytology was negative for malignant cells. A thoracic computed tomography (CT) scan followed by flexible bronchoscopy was planned.
Contrast-enhanced CT thorax demonstrated a mass lesion measuring 5 cm × 7.5 cm × 4.5 cm in relation to the bronchus intermedius causing its significant luminal compromise with resultant atelectasis and bronchiectatic changes in middle lobe and lower