A 52-year-old male was admitted to medical ward for the management of a severe headache and raised blood pressure. Subsequently, he suffered a seizure and developed an irrelevant speech for which a psychiatric consultation was sought.
History revealed alcohol consumption from the age of 22 years. By the age of 45 years, he had features of alcohol dependence in the form of craving, tolerance, loss of control, withdrawal discomfort, the primacy of alcohol use, and sociooccupational deterioration. He consumed around 750 ml of rum daily. Before 2 days admission, he abruptly stopped drinking after repeated pleading by family members. He had been detected to have hypertension in 2007 and diabetes mellitus (Type II) along with dyslipidemia in 2008. There was no family history of mental illness or substance use. He is educated up to 9th class and has been employed for last 26 years. He chewed tobacco regularly for last 30 years.
He had tachycardia, raised blood pressure, bilateral coarse digital tremors, and diaphoresis. He was disoriented and had vivid visual and auditory hallucinations along with secondary delusions of persecution. There was no focal neurological deficit or neck rigidity. A urine drug screen was negative. Laboratory investigation findings are summarized in . A diagnosis of alcohol dependence syndrome (complicated withdrawal with seizures and delirium) was made, and the patient was treated with chlordiazepoxide in tapering doses, thiamine supplementation and parenteral haloperidol for behavioral control. His response to treatment was tardy and though his orientation improved he had difficulty in comprehending instructions even a week later. Mini- mental state examination (MMSE) score improved from 12 at admission to 26. However, he remained dull and was unable to participate in routine neurocognitive evaluation even a fortnight after admission. Progression of withdrawal and MMSE are described in .
Contrast enhanced magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) brain done then, revealed a nonenhancing area of altered signal intensity in central pons suggestive of CP