A 33-year-old man was referred to the eye clinic with a chief complaint of progressively decreasing vision in his right eye. The patient reported that he first noted the change in vision 3 months previously, without any other remarkable features. He also reported that when he moved his right eye, he felt a sense of discomfort and aching pain. One month later, a small palpable, round, movable, nontender bump was found in his left chest wall, which was getting bigger in size from 2×2 cm2 to 3×3 cm2 in recent months. Excluding the change in vision and the bump in the chest wall, further detailed ophthalmic examination and general physical assessment showed no significant abnormalities. He had no history of trauma or any other underlying systemic and ophthalmologic disease. He had a smoking history of 10 pack-years and a history of alcohol use. A cranial and nasopharynx computed tomography (CT) showed a right solid tissue orbital mass in the retrobulbar space, pressing on the optic nerve; there was no involvement of the bony orbital wall, and the brain was normal. The initial clinical impression was that of orbital displacement, and it was difficult to differentiate the benign tumors (capillary hemangioma, optic nerve glioma, cavernous hemangioma, and meningioma), inflammatory pseudotumor, or malignant tumor, all of which show a similar unclear shadow on plain scan. Before further investigative examinations were ordered, the ophthalmologist recommended the patient to a surgical clinic for evaluation of left chest wall neoplasm to determine if it was a primary malignancy or metastasis. A subcutaneous resection was performed, and the histopathology examination of the excision showed poorly differentiated metastatic adenocarcinoma. Furthermore, immunohistochemical studies showed negativity of TTF-, NapsinA, S-100, HMB45, and Melan-A and positivity of CK, CK7, and Vim. Four weeks after his first doctor visit, the patient came to our radiation oncology clinic, complaining of decreasing visual acuity,