A 62-year-old man with a history of hypertension, smoking, and AICD implant for out of hospital ventricular fibrillation arrest 13 years earlier was scheduled for AICD generator box change under general anesthesia (GA). Anesthetic pre assessment was unremarkable with a good ventricular function on echocardiogram. During the attempted removal of the AICD generator box, the cardiologist noted a break in the insulation of the AICD lead component. Because the patient was not consented for leads removal, the generator box was removed, and leads were left in situ with a plan for laser extraction at a later date. Two days later, laser extraction of leads was attempted under GA. Monitoring included standard and invasive arterial pressures. The lead extraction was complicated with pericardial tamponade due to a linear tear in the free wall of the the right ventricle, which was managed successfully by emergency surgery, and the patient was extubated later that day in the ICU. Intraoperatively, central venous pressure was noted to be around 18–22 cm of water. The following day he became intermittently hypoxemic with a PaO2 of 6.8–13.3 kPa despite being on high inspired oxygen via continuous positive airway pressure mask. Central venous pressure was around 13–15 cm of water. Clinical examination and chest X-ray which showed some left basal collapse did not correlate with his level of hypoxemia. Transthoracic echocardiogram was not conclusive because of the poor window. Although, he remained hypoxemic, his hemodynamics and metabolic parameters were normal. So, he underwent computed tomography pulmonary angiography (CTPA), which showed a small right solitary pulmonary embolism, a small left pleural effusion and atelectasis. He was then started on heparin infusion. Despite a sufficient duration of anticoagulation and 100% oxygen he remained hypoxemic. A review of his CTPA scan suggested an aneurysmal interatrial septum. Transesophageal echocardiography was performed under GA. It demonstrated a flail tricuspid valve with severe eccentric TR, an aneurismal interatrial