A 75-year-old woman was admitted to our hospital for 1 h of persistent severe chest pain. Apart from smoking, she had no cardiac risk factors. At the time of admission, the electrocardiogram showed ST-segment elevation in leads I,avl. Laboratory data showed that the serum creatine kinase and troponin I had elevated. According to the results of electrocardiogram and laboratory data, STEMI was definitly diagnosed. Primary percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) was indicated immediately. The coronary agiography (CAG) revealed triple vessel disease with left circumflex as the culprit which was occluded in the proximal segment (Fig. ).
With the indication of aspiration thrombectomy and percutaneous coronary balloon dilatation, the coronary reperfusion therapy was achieved (Fig. ). The symptom of chest pain was relieved. Meanwhile, the cardiac surgeon was invited for consultation, and his recommendation was to complete the CABG surgery after the acute phase of AMI. We ended the operation because the goal of primary percutaneous coronary intervention was achieved. The initial course went well, and the patient’s condition was stable gradually after PTCA. However, she suddenly exhibited severe chest pain, dyspnea, agitated, and profuse sweating 6 days after hospitalization. Physical examination indicated a blood pressure of 79/44 mmHg, a heart rate of 98 beats/minute. An electrocardiogram examination did not show ST-segment elevation again. She was given dopamine to raise the blood pressure and fluid to maintain the circulation capacity immediately. The patient presented cardiac syncope suddenly following the onset of atrial fibrillation with a heart rate of 140 beats per minute after half an hour. In consideration of further hemodynamic impairment caused by tachyarrhythmia, electrical defibrillation was urgently administered to restore sinus rhythm. Emergency echocardiography demonstrated pericardial tamponade. After pericardiocentesis with ultrasound guidance and continuous drainage of hemorrhagic pericardial effusion, the patient’s haemodynamic condition returned to stability. The catheter drainage of pericardium stopped when there was no fluid drainage in 2 days. Subsequent echocardiography revealed an abnormal cardiac chamber adjacent to the lateral