Our patient was a 58 year old man with a background of heavy smoking and alcohol excess, who presented to our local emergency department complaining of left arm pain following a fall out of a ground floor window the previous night. On arrival he was examined by the emergency department registrar and found to have a tender left shoulder, with bizarre skin puckering overlying his proximal humerus anteriorly (Fig. ). The skin lesion measured approximately 2cm in diameter and was very tender to palpation. The patient was unable to move his left shoulder due to pain.
He was noted to have intact motor and sensory function of his Axillary, Radial, Median and Ulnar nerves. Initial radiographs were performed which demonstrated a minimally displaced transverse fracture through the surgical neck of the left humerus (Fig. ).
The attending emergency department registrar then attempted to reduce the skin defect but various attempts were unsuccessful, which prompted referral to the on-call orthopaedic team. The skin defect was examined by the authors and thought to be entrapped skin ‘button-holed’ into the fracture site. This was very unusual given the minimally displaced nature of the fracture.
The patient was taken to theatre emergently and the fracture was manipulated under general anaesthesia. The fracture was distracted with manual in-line traction and counter-traction with slight external rotation. The incarcerated skin was freed with difficulty by applying lateral traction to the skin whilst simultaneously sweeping a finger under the defect. This allowed the underlying fascia to be unhitched from the fracture site. The skin was released without causing any further trauma. The skin appeared viable despite being incarcerated for over twelve hours (Fig. ). The fracture was then reduced by releasing the traction and reversing the external rotation. Satisfactory check radiographs were obtained.
The patient was placed into a collar and cuff sling and allowed home, he attended his next two fracture clinic follow-up appointments where serial radiographs demonstrated