Pyogenic granuloma (PG) may occur in all ages and is predominant in the second decade of life in females.[] It is a common nonneoplastic, exophytic vascular growth often associated with the history of trauma or chronic irritation.[]
The present case reports a 23-year-old male patient who reported to the department of periodontology with the chief complaint of growth in the lower right front region of mouth since 1 year. The growth was not tender but created esthetic concerns for the patient. On detailed conversation with the patient, he revealed an occasional habit of smoking since 2 years with no contributory medical history. Clinical exploration revealed a pedunculated growth at the gingival margin with respect to lower right lateral incisor and canine, measuring 12 mm × 15 mm with an interproximal lingual extension [Figure and ]. The color of the lesion was pale pink with the consistency being firm toward the coronal two-third whereas the lower one-third was erythematous and soft. In general, early stage PGs are highly vascular in appearance because they are composed predominantly of hyperplastic granulation tissue in which capillaries are prominent, whereas mature lesions tend to become firm due to the presence of more collagen network.[] There was a moderate amount of calculus present along coronal and subgingival areas of the oral cavity. An intraoral periapical radiograph revealed mild crestal bone loss with respect to 42 and 43. Hence, based on the location and clinical findings, a provisional diagnosis of PG was assigned. A treatment strategy was planned which included oral prophylaxis followed by review after 2 weeks for resolution of existing inflammation. Oral hygiene instructions were given and the use of chlorhexidine mouthwash (0.2% Clohex™, Dr. Reddy's Laboratories Ltd., Hyderabad, Telangana, India) twice a day for 1 week was advised. At the follow-up interval, the overgrowth still persisted and interfered with patients' function and esthetics. A differential diagnosis