A 35-year-old male who was being managed for bipolar affective disorder, currently with a manic episode. He was diagnosed 5 years ago and was on maintenance treatment with sodium valproate but had poor compliance to medication. During this index presentation, he was placed on olanzapine 10 mg daily and sodium valproate 400 mg twice a day. One week into admission the dose of olanzapine was increased to 20 mg daily because of increasing restlessness and grandiose delusion. About 1 month into admission, he was in remission but was noticed to have swelling of both legs and hands. The patient was not a known hypertensive or diabetic. There was no history of use of alcohol but used cigarette and cannabis before presentation. The patient did not report any change in his dietary and fluid intake. He was not on any drug known to cause edema such as nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, steroids, antihypertensive, or immunosuppressive agents.
On examination, he had a nonpitting pedal severe edema while that of the hands were mild based on the classification of severity of edema.[] Blood pressure, cardiac, and abdominal examinations were normal. The urea, creatinine, electrolytes, thyroid function test, liver function tests, and serum proteins were normal. Urine test, chest X-ray, electrocardiogram and abdominopelvic ultrasound were also normal.
When the above investigation turned out to be normal olanzapine was stopped, based on emerging evidence of rare association of olanzapine with peripheral edema.[] One week after discontinuation of olanzapine, edema was moderately severe and therefore, frusemide 5 mg was introduced and within 2 weeks swelling completely resolved. He was then placed on risperidone 4 mg daily and sodium valproate. This patient had used sodium valproate without a report of edema in the past. The adverse effect was scored using the Naranjo's algorithm for adverse drug reaction probability scale,[] and a score of 7 was obtained which indicate strong association of edema with olanzapine.