A 79-year-old man who was a current smoker was admitted to our hospital for hemoptysis in July 2011 (day 0). Before admission, pulmonary emphysema and multiple pulmonary bullae were detected on a chest computed tomography (CT) scan, and we also discovered that the patient had hypertension. He had a history of lobectomy of the left lower lobe for lung cancer in 1993, with no recurrence; two episodes of bacterial pneumonia; gastrectomy for gastric cancer in August 2010; right spontaneous pneumothorax that required tube drainage in November 2010; and hospitalization for dyspnea in February 2011, at which time chest radiographs showed left lung opacity and a chest CT scan showed consolidation with pleural effusion in the left lung. Several bacterial antibiotics failed to improve the opacity on chest radiographs. A sputum culture was negative for Aspergillus. The lack of efficacy of bacterial antibiotics and the presence of multiple bullae and precipitating antibody to Aspergillus in the serum (day -163) led to a presumptive diagnosis of chronic necrotizing pulmonary aspergillosis. Voriconazole with a loading dose of 800 mg a day followed by a maintenance dose of 400 mg a day was started on day -155. A switch from intravenous to oral administration of voriconazole at a dose of 400 mg a day was made on day -106. With administration of voriconazole, the opacity on chest radiographs had significantly improved by June 2011. The patient underwent transurethral resection of bladder cancer in March 2011. Oral voriconazole was continued at our outpatient clinic until his admission for hemoptysis. He had no hematologic neoplasm.
On admission, a chest radiograph (a) showed consolidation in the upper field of the left lung and an infiltration shadow in the middle and lower fields of the left lung. A chest CT scan (b) showed consolidation in the pulmonary bullae adjacent to the aortic arch. These shadows were considered to be due to hemorrhage. Bronchoscopy revealed slight bleeding from left B1+2 without evidence of a tumor. Laboratory tests showed a normal count