A 41-year-old pregnant woman, in her first gestation, sought medical care complaining of pain in her right shoulder for the last two months, associated with the impairment of moving her arm. She was 20 weeks pregnant and did not attend any prenatal consultation. Her medical history included smoking, correctly treated syphilis, and pulmonary thromboembolism. The patient did not have any family history of thyroid disease.
Right arm radiography () demonstrated a lytic bone lesion on her shoulder, apparently involving the surrounding soft tissues. The initial working diagnosis was a soft tissue or bone tumor with differential secondary lesions, for example, metastatic carcinomas. The patient was submitted to a biopsy of the lesion (), which revealed a high-grade malignant neoplasm with an epithelioid aspect on the histological examination. The predominant pattern was solid with sheets of atypical cells and a sparse microfollicular-like arrangement. There were many mitoses and, occasionally, nuclear hyperchromasia. The morphological hypothesis was a metastatic carcinoma and, more remotely, primitive neuroectodermal neoplasms.
The immunohistochemistry (IHC) was diffuse and strongly positive for cytokeratin (AE1/AE3) and TTF1. CD45, CD99, chromogranin-A, and synaptophysin were negative. Since the morphology was favorable for thyroid differentiation, the IHC panel was extended to thyroglobulin, calcitonin, and surfactant with a positive result only for thyroglobulin. Thus, the diagnosis of metastatic thyroid carcinoma was made. Also, the thoracic computerized tomography (CT) failed to show any pulmonary lesion. The thyroid examination revealed an increased cervical volume, with some firm and painful areas, in the paramedian region. It is important to mention that until that moment the patient had no previous medical care. The cervical enlargement observed in the anterior portion of the neck was not reported by the patient. When asked, the patient reported that there might have been some increase in the region.
The ultrasonography (US) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) revealed a suspected nodule localized in