A 67-year-old man presented to clinic with 4 months of increasing diarrhoea and weight loss from 74 to 60 kg. He had a height of 1.91 m and a body mass index of 16.4. He opened his bowels up to 8 times a day with loose motions, though without associated blood or mucus, and had not improved with trials of gluten-free and lactose-free diets. Prior to this, he had never had gastrointestinal symptoms. His past history was significant for Klinefelter's syndrome requiring parenteral testosterone replacement, 2 previous lumbar laminectomies, and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease with a 30 pack-year history of cigarette smoking that had ceased 4 years prior.
Multiple outpatient investigations were performed, all with negative results. These included full blood count; renal function and liver function tests; serum levels of iron, vitamin B12, folate and albumin; erythrocyte sedimentation rate and C-reactive protein; thyroid function tests; serology for human immunodeficiency virus hepatitis B and hepatitis C; stool cultures and parasite screening, and anti-tissue transglutaminase antibodies. Computed tomography (CT) scans of his chest, abdomen and pelvis revealed only a 1-cm left adrenal adenoma which appeared benign, uncomplicated cholelithiasis and atheroma within the abdominal aorta. Gastroscopy and colonoscopy were macroscopically unremarkable, with biopsies of the stomach, duodenum, terminal ileum and colon showing no abnormalities.
On a second clinic review 2 months later, his symptoms had progressed to include nausea beginning 1 h after meals, persisting for several hours and causing secondary anorexia. His diarrhoea continued, and a further kilogram of weight had been lost. Further outpatient tests included a nuclear medicine gastric emptying study with a negative result; although faecal calprotectin via the Quantum Blue method was elevated at 145 μg/g, indicating a high probability of inflammation in the gastrointestinal tract.
Three weeks later, prior to a planned clinic appointment, he was admitted to the hospital with ongoing nausea and diarrhoea which was impossible to