The patient was a 74-year-old African American female with a past medical history of hypertension, smoking, sarcoidosis, and fibromyalgia. She presented with a painful swelling in her left neck and the symptoms did not improve with antibiotics and oral steroids for 4 months. She was referred for head and neck surgical evaluation. Physical examination demonstrated a 2-cm mobile tender mass inferior to the left earlobe. The overlying skin was unremarkable. Facial movement was intact and no cervical lymphadenopathy was identified. Contrasted CT of the neck revealed a 2.5×1.6 cm oval-shaped, cystic mass with irregular borders within the left parotid gland. The mass demonstrated peripheral enhancement and central hypo-attenuation. The top differential diagnoses by imaging included malignancy and infection. A fine needle aspiration was performed at the outside hospital and inconclusive.
The patient was transferred to the Veterans Affairs San Diego Healthcare System for surgery, due to the suspicion of a salivary neoplasm with malignant potential. Left parotidectomy was performed, during which a relatively well-demarcated cystic tumor was encountered within the superficial lobe of the parotid gland. There was no clinical evidence of extra-parenchymal extension, and no difficulty was encountered in dissecting the tumor from the facial nerve branches. The tumor and surrounding superficial parotid lobe were removed en bloc. Several slightly enlarged lymph nodes from Level II were also biopsied for histologic examination. No frozen section examination was requested intraoperatively.
Macroscopically, the tumor measured 2.8×1.5×1.2 cm in size with an ill-defined boundary. There were cystic and hemorrhagic changes within the tumor. The vast majority of the tumor were sampled and submitted in six tissue blocks, in addition to one block of the uninvolved parotid gland. Microscopically, the tumor had an infiltrative growth pattern with centrally cystic areas and focal necrosis (). The neoplastic cells were exclusively oncocytic, characterized by abundant eosinophilic granular cytoplasm, uniformly round nuclei, and variably-sized nucle