A 57-year-old African American female presented to our emergency department with a 6-month history of diarrhea, urgency and tenesmus. She was found to have a perirectal abscess. CT of the abdomen was significant for thickening of the rectum and sigmoid colon. On rectal examination, she was noted to have an anal fistula. The perirectal abscess was drained, and a seton was placed for the anal fistula. A colonoscopy was performed showing erythema and friability consistent with colitis extending to the transverse colon, although most pronounced in the sigmoid colon and rectum. The remainder of the colon and the terminal ileum were normal. Biopsies from the involved portion of the colon including the rectum showed acute cryptitis with crypt abscess formation and crypt distortion and were consistent with CD. The patient was started on adalimumab and mesalamine suppositories with significant clinical improvement. A follow-up sigmoidoscopy after 8 months showed resolution of the colitis with only mild proctitis remaining. The patient continues to smoke despite counseling.
Twelve months into treatment, she developed recurrent boils and nodules in her groin. Her white blood cell count was normal (6,900/μl). She was started on amoxicillin 875 mg and clavulanic acid 125 mg orally twice a day for 10 days. With the suspicion of HS, she was referred to the dermatology clinic, and the diagnosis was confirmed. Her skin lesions improved only transiently on the antibiotics. Her disease progressed with multiple boils and draining sinus tracts in her groin bilaterally with involvement of her right posterior thigh (fig. , HS of the right posterior thigh; fig. , HS of the left groin) but no axillary involvement. She had no prior history of HS or psoriasis. She was started on doxycycline 100 mg orally twice a day for 10 days and subsequently also with 10-day courses of cephalexin followed by clindamycin with minimal improvement. She was started on suppressive therapy with doxycycline 100 mg orally twice a day for 2 months