A 46-year-old male presented to our urology clinic because of referral from an outlying hospital for urinary retention for a prolonged period of time that required Foley catheter placemen and a pelvic mass. Computerized tomography (CT) scan with and without intravenous contrast was reviewed showing a 13.9 cm × 14.6 cm × 11.6 cm mass in the retroperitoneum with some extension into the left groin []. The CT scan also showed bilateral hydroureter and a compressed, displaced urinary bladder. Furthermore, fine needle aspiration (FNA) was done at the referring facility, which showed histologically that the mass was of spindle cell origin.
The patient's history and physical examination was done. The patient denied any other complaints other than urinary retention and slight tenderness in his left, lower quadrant. He denied smoking, alcohol, or illicit drug usage. He denies any recent radiation or toxin exposure. No histories of unintentional weight loss, fevers, chills, or hematuria were noted. His medical history included essential hypertension and a clavicle fracture. His surgical history included recent FNA of pelvic mass, CT guided biopsy of hepatic lesion, and soft tissue resection of lesion of finger and hand. His family history was insignificant for urological disease, but there was a family history of diabetes, hypertension, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, and his mother had breast cancer. Review of systems was negative except for urinary retention, and a recent decrease in appetite. Physical examination revealed tenderness in the left, lower quadrant of the abdomen and a benign feeling, enlarged prostate on digital rectal exam.
The patient was scheduled for cystoscopy with bilateral retrograde pyelograms. Cystoscopy revealed a bladder displacement to the right with difficulty in evaluating the right ureteral orifice [].
The patient underwent abdominal and pelvic exploration with surgical excision of the pelvic sarcoma with bladder-sparing. There was no involvement of the left ureter. Surgical pathology revealed spindle cell sarcoma consistent with undifferentiated pleomorphic sarcoma. Pathologic staging was initially