A 46-year-old non-smoking Caucasian G4P2022 presented for evaluation of chronic pelvic pain first noted following HS in July 2011. The Essure procedure was completed under ketorolac intravenous sedation in an ambulatory surgery center setting. Three months later, the patient was informed that bilateral tubal occlusion was confirmed by hysterosalpingogram, but a detailed review of findings was not provided. Soon after HS the patient reported increased, irregular vaginal bleeding and dyspareunia. Within 4 to 6 weeks of her Essure procedure the patient developed intermittent right lower quadrant pain, headaches, insomnia, lower extremity paresthesia, intolerance to cold, and fatigue.
Although the patient was in excellent general health before HS and only visited the doctor for annual check-ups, following the Essure procedure she had approximately 36 clinic appointments (partial year). No specific diagnosis or treatment was offered. Her symptoms persisted during subsequent years and insurance records showed a sharp uptick in frequency of health visits following the Essure procedure: 34 billed encounters in 2012 to discuss pelvic pain issues with various healthcare providers, 22 consultations in 2013, 28 visits in 2014, and 54 appointments in 2015 (partial year). In addition to consultations, these visits included multiple in-office ultrasounds, three computed tomography scans, and blood tests with no abnormal findings identified from these evaluations. The patient obtained a flat panel abdominal X-ray (anterior-posterior view) in May 2015 and this study showed the left Essure implant located within the corresponding fallopian tube, although the right device was in two asymmetric parts.
In September 2015, the patient had a follow-up hysterosalpingogram which showed a normal endometrial cavity and bilateral tubal occlusion. Consistent with the confirmatory hysterosalpingogram performed after HS, the right Essure device appeared disrupted with a small portion possibly corresponding to the medial terminal marker near the right cornu, but the majority of the implant was situated at the lateral pelvis.
In November 2015,