A 30-year-old male, chronic tobacco chewer, presented to the oncology clinic with 2 months history of an ulcer over left buccal mucosa. The patient was well built and had Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group performance score of 1. On locoregional examination, he had a 3 cm × 4 cm ulceroproliferative growth over the left buccal mucosa involving the angle of mouth reaching up to left retromolar trigone involving the upper gingivobuccal sulcus. No lymph nodes were palpable. Contrast enhanced computed tomography (CECT) scan neck reported diffuse soft tissue thickening along the left buccal mucosa extending along upper and lower lip to mid-sagittal plane and reaching up to superior gingivobuccal sulcus posteriorly in the region of premolars. Biopsy from the growth reported keratinizing squamous cell carcinoma. All other baseline investigations including a complete hemogram, kidney function tests, liver function tests, and chest X-ray were within normal limits. In view of the above findings, the patient was diagnosed as carcinoma of the left buccal mucosa cT4aN0M0 (AJCC) Stage IVA. The patient underwent wide local excision of the lesion with left modified neck dissection with flap reconstruction. Postoperative histopathology reported well differentiated squamous cell carcinoma of size 1 cm × 0.8 cm × 0.7 cm with the involvement of overlying skin and 5 out of 36 lymph nodes dissected were positive - pT4aN2bMx stage IVA. In view of the histopathology findings patient received adjuvant external beam radiotherapy 66 Gy in 33 fractions to the planning target volume by inverse planned intensity modulated radiotherapy technique on Varian Clinac iX by 6 MV photons with weekly concurrent cisplatin-based chemotherapy. The patient subsequently remained in follow-up. He reported again after 3 months with complaints of a lump over the right side of the chest wall for which he had consulted a local doctor and underwent excision of the lump at a local hospital. No histopathology report was available for the same. On local examination