Our patient is a 43-year-old male with no significant past medical history who presented to our emergency room with a chief complaint of shortness of breath for the duration of 2 weeks. Two weeks before presentation, the patient was prescribed azithromycin by his primary care provider for a presumed diagnosis of pneumonia. On further history, the patient endorsed a non-productive cough associated with subjective fevers, chills, weakness and malaise for 1 month. He denied any past medical history of autoimmune, systemic or immune-compromising conditions. He denied any sick contacts, recent travel, tuberculosis or chemical exposure. He denied any nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, muscular weakness or neurological symptoms, orthopnea or paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea. At baseline, he was able to walk approximately five blocks without getting dyspneic. He had no known drug allergies, took no other medications and his social history was negative other than 20 pack year smoking history. His family history was unremarkable as well. Our patient worked a desk job and his occupational history was negative for any kind of environmental pollutants known to be associated with lung disease. On admission to the emergency room, the patient was afebrile, with a respiratory rate of 26 breaths/min, heart rate of 115 beats/min, with a room air saturation of 75% and blood pressure of 90/60 mm Hg. Physical exam was pertinent for hyperkeratosis over the index fingers and his thumbs bilaterally along with thickening noticed over the metacarpophalangeal joints and proximal interphalangeal joints. The rest of the physical exam was unremarkable. Early resuscitation was initiated and the patient was treated with 6 L of oxygen via nasal cannula and given 30 cc/kg of normal saline for fluid resuscitation with normalization of his blood pressure and heart rate prior to admission to the general medical telemetry unit.
On admission, his labs were remarkable for a white blood cell count of 25,000 units/L, hemoglobin level was