The 80-year-old male patient was admitted to the emergency department due to dyspnea; his medical history included cancer of the mouth floor, surgical treatment with subsequent radiation therapy 2 years ago, and many years of smoking. Physical examination revealed resting dyspnea, peripheral cyanosis, numerous bilateral rales and crackles above the lung fields, diminished alveolar murmur above the right lung field, tachycardia, and dull heart sounds. Based on chest X-ray images (), right-sided pneumothorax was diagnosed; the patient was admitted to the Department of General Surgery, where he underwent pleural drainage. Follow-up X-ray examination performed on the next day demonstrated expansion of the right lung, numerous atelectatic foci in the right lung field, and fluid levels corresponding to confined air bubbles with fluid (). Despite the improved X-ray image, no improvement was observed in the patient's general condition. The rales and crackles persisted above both lung fields, the drainage had features of air leakage, and the patient did not tolerate lying down. As there was no clinical improvement, and the patient's severe condition persisted, heart failure was suspected, and echocardiography was performed. Due to the patient's status, the examination was conducted in a sitting position; it revealed the “presence of a meager amount of fluid with gas bubbles in the pericardium, without signs of impaired myocardial contractility”. Physical examination revealed no signs of cardiac tamponade. Due to the lack of clinical improvement and a suspicion of pericardial empyema, and considering the lack of unequivocal indications for immediate intervention, the patient was qualified for chest computed tomography (CT) in order to reach a more comprehensive diagnosis, determine the etiology of the air bubbles in the pericardial fluid, and, possibly, perform drainage of the pericardial sac under CT control.
Computed tomography confirmed the presence of air in the pericardial sac (). When the patient assumed a horizontal position during the examination, his condition rapidly deteriorated, leading to a sudden cardiac arrest. D