A 37-year-old male patient presented with the chief complaint of root sensitivity in the lower left lateral incisor and canine for the past 1 year. The patient was systemically healthy without any oral abusive habits, did not use of any form of tobacco or alcohol, and had not undergone any periodontal treatment in the last 6 months. On intraoral examination, gingival recessions were observed with respect to mandibular left lateral incisor and canine. There was inadequate attached gingiva, shallow vestibular depth, and broad interdental gingival tissues []. The presence of good keratinized tissue on the either side of gingival recession indicated that a lateral pedicle graft could be a good therapeutic option for root coverage for the individual tooth. However, since conventional LPPG are indicated only for localized recessions, it was contraindicated in our case due to the presence of multiple recessions. Furthermore, a CAF and soft tissue graft was also ruled out since there was an inadequate amount of attached gingiva and shallow vestibular depth along with patient's unwillingness for any invasive procedure involving the second surgical site. Therefore, utilizing the advantage of good papillary gingival tissue on either side of gingival recessions, a novel modification in the conventional pedicle flap design was planned for root coverage [Figure –].
The surgery was performed after 4 months of nonsurgical phase one therapy to allow complete resolution of gingival inflammation. A thorough assessment of all the etiological factors that could be associated with gingival recession such as plaque and calculus-induced infalammation; mechanical forces such as trauma from oral hygiene practices due to inappropriate tooth brushing, flossing, interproximal brush; mechanical trauma from masticatory forces, high-muscle attachments, frenal pull; anatomical factors such as tooth shape, profile, and position in the arch and alveolar bone dehiscence was evaluated and corrected prior to the procedure.[]
The procedure was performed under local anesthetics of 2% lignocaine hydrochloride with 1:80,000 adrenaline. An internal bevel incision followed by