A 35-year-old man was hospitalized for acute chest pain and palpitation at rest with a presumed diagnosis of unstable angina. He also described an episode of syncope. He was prescribed chlorpheniramine 4 mg a couple of days ago for symptomatic treatment of upper respiratory tract infection, and he was also on propranolol 20 mg treatment for essential tremor and anxiety disorder for many years. He was used to take propranolol daily. His complaints appeared 1 h after intake of the second dosage of chlorpheniramine together with propranolol. He had no prior history of cardiac arrhythmias, valvular or congenital heart disease, and sudden cardiac death in family history. He smoked regularly up to 20 cigarettes a day. He denied the usage of legal or illegal other medications such as antidepressants and cocaine. Physical examination revealed irregular pulse, low blood pressure of 90/60 mmHg, and altered cloudy consciousness. He had no biochemical abnormality; magnesium and potassium level was in normal range. Electrocardiography (ECG) showed ST-segment depression in inferior leads and isolated ST elevation in leads D1-aVL []. Echocardiography showed normal systolic functions with no segmental wall motion abnormalities. The patient was given 300 mg of acetylsalicylic acid and underwent emergency coronary angiography that revealed normal coronary arteries. Whenever ischemic changes were observed in admission ECG, anti-ischemic therapy was not admitted to the patient due to the result of completely normal coronaries. After all the patient was followed by telemetry at coronary care unit. Control ECG showed ventricular bigeminy and R on T phenomenon. On the 2nd day of admission, the patient had polymorphic ventricular tachycardia (VT) attack which degenerated to ventricular fibrillation, immediately patient was defibrillated and sinus rhythm was restored successfully []. After defibrillation, the patient continued to have frequent premature ventricular beats and couplets on the monitor. On the 3rd day of his admission, an upper rib ECG was performed and showed a pattern of right bundle branch block with ST-segment elevation in