A 77-year-old retired army service man with past history of hypercholesterolaemia and previous tuberculosis presented to the Emergency Department having briefly lost consciousness. On recovering, he was aware of a chest discomfort with radiation to the back and neck. He was an ex-smoker. Initial assessment revealed an irregular pulse with a rate between 30 and 50 bpm and a blood pressure of 103/56 mmHg. Cardiac examination was unremarkable with no murmurs heard and the jugular venous pressure was not raised. Auscultation of the chest was also unremarkable. He had different blood pressures between left (103/56 mmHg) and right arms (76/59 mmHg). His ECG revealed atrial fibrillation, a new finding, partial right bundle branch block and left axis deviation but no other ischaemic changes. A CT aortogram excluded aortic dissection and pulmonary embolus. Blood tests revealed an initial troponin T of 96 ng/l (normal < 14), which subsequently rose to 1088 ng/l. He was treated as an acute coronary syndrome. Echocardiography revealed mild left ventricular impairment with lateral wall hypokinesis and no evidence of intra-cardiac thrombus. Whilst on the ward he complained of intermittent chest discomfort and we proceeded to coronary angiography 48 h after admission, which revealed an unobstructed left main stem and minor irregularities within the left anterior descending artery. The right coronary artery was co-dominant and unobstructed. However, the left circumflex (LCx) artery was co-dominant and there was a large area of solid thrombus covering a 2 cm stretch of the artery. Given the history of atrial fibrillation we felt that this most likely represented an embolic occlusion. A guide wire was placed across the occlusion and the thrombus was aspirated successfully with an aspiration catheter. A significant amount of red thrombus was obtained. Subsequent angiographic images of the LCx revealed a completely smooth normal looking artery without any area of stenosis or irregularity. The patient remained well following his