A 75-year-old man presented to our outpatient clinic with the complaint of feeling the bottom of the right-sided MPP while he touched the right buttock close to the gluteal skin. He also had other symptoms including pain, pain during defecation, painful sexual intercourse and feeling the tip of the right penile prosthesis at the proximal side of the penis. The patient had a 30-year history of smoking two packs of cigarettes daily. He had no history of diabetes mellitus. He underwent a thorough evaluation and was diagnosed with ED of mixed etiology. He received counseling and conservative treatment with an external vacuum device and intracavernosal injection. Because the patient and his partner had difficulty accepting the conservative treatment, he underwent an operation for MPP placement at the age of 55 years. At week 6 postoperatively after the penile prosthesis operation, the patient had sexual intercourse. There was no pain and he was well satisfied. Ten years after the MPP implantation, the left-sided prosthesis appeared at the urethral meatus due to urethral erosion and was extracted. After the operation the patient continued to have sexual intercourse. Ten years after the extraction of the left-sided prosthesis, the right-sided prosthesis moved backward and the patient could feel the bottom of the prosthesis under the buttock skin close to the perianal area. On physical examination, the right-sided MPP eroded the right corpus cavernosum and moved posteriorly. Upon physical examination there was no penile prosthesis at the left corpus cavernosum as expected. However the tip of the right-sided prosthesis was felt at the proximal side of the penis. The bottom of the prosthesis was felt by touching the buttock skin close to the perianal area (). A rectal examination revealed the right-sided prosthesis at the right side close to the rectum wall. There was no infection. The right-sided 20-cm MPP was removed under local anesthesia through an incision in the right buttock (). Upon removal, the