A 78-year-old Caucasian woman with no known past medical history presented to the emergency department with complaints of bilateral lower extremity edema and erythema with a clear serous discharge. The patient first noticed some small blisters on her left lower extremity which subsequently opened with some clear serous drainage. She also experienced progressively worsening swelling first of the left lower extremity and then her right lower extremity which prompted her to come into the hospital. Except for a cough, the patient had no other symptoms.
Preliminary evaluation at the emergency department indicated the patient had cardiomegaly and bilateral pleural effusions with a BNP of 1260. She also had atrial fibrillation with rapid ventricular response. The patient was not complaining of any chest pain, fevers, chills, nausea, vomiting or diarrhea. Her chest x-ray showed evidence of cardiac enlargement with interstitial densities and bilateral air-space processes possibly associated with asymmetric pulmonary edema. Large bilateral pleural effusions were noted, with the left greater than the right side. Incidentally, some evidence indicating a compression fracture of indeterminate age involving the upper lumbar/lower dorsal spine was observed.
The patient had no known medical history. In fact, she had not been seen by a physician for the last 15 years. Besides taking aspirin occasionally, she was not on any medications. She did not use alcohol, tobacco or illicit drugs. Physical examination did not reveal any specific concerns other than bilateral lower extremity edema.
CT angiogram of the chest showed large bilateral pleural effusions with bilateral lower lobe enhancing volume loss and worse on the left. Cardiomegaly was noted and there was no evidence for a pulmonary embolus. In addition, there was no evidence of deep venous thrombosis in the venous Doppler studies of her lower extremities bilaterally.
Echocardiogram indicated the left ventricle with some mild hypertrophy. Systolic function was normal with an ejection fraction estimated at about 60%. The right ventricle was mildly enlarged and mildly hypokinetic. The left atrium showed marked enlargement and the right atrium was moderately enlarged as well.