This 36-year-old man presented with a three-month history of headaches which he attributed to sinusitis. He took several courses of antibiotics which did not relieve his symptoms. He began to gradually develop fullness and a lump in the midline of his forehead over the frontal sinus region. Sinus plain radiographs demonstrated ‘sinusitis’ for which he was referred to an otolaryngologist who arranged a paranasal sinus CT scan. This scan demonstrated a bone destructive lesion of the frontal sinus. A further MRI scan confirmed the presence of a frontal sinus tumour without intracranial extension or extension into the ethmoid bone. The tumour was limited to the lower two-thirds and anterior wall of the frontal sinus with obstructive changes in the superior part of the right frontal sinus. Fine needle aspiration biopsy of the lesion revealed a squamous cell carcinoma. He was otherwise fit and well barring mild hyperlipidemia. He has no family history of sinus cancer and did not take any medications. He did not smoke but drank alcohol two to three times a week.
On examination there was a poorly-defined smooth swelling approximately 4 cm in width on the forehead in the midline just about the eyebrows. There was normal skin sensation on the forehead bilaterally and no cranial nerve abnormalities. No other palpable masses were present in the head and neck. Otolaryngological examination was normal. There were no other abnormalities detected on general examination. The diagnosis of primary squamous cell carcinoma of the frontal sinus was discussed with the patient along with the possible treatment options. It was agreed that the optimal treatment option would be surgical resection of the primary tumor followed by postoperative radiochemotherapy.
It was agreed with the patient that the optimal treatment option would be surgical resection of the primary tumour followed by postoperative radiochemotherapy. The procedure was done conjointly between the head and neck and neurosurgery teams. This case offered a surgically challenging frontal craniotomy with resection of the frontal sinus and reconstruction of the frontal bone.
The initial access