A 55-year-old woman was seen at the outpatient clinic in 2007 because of progressive complaints of angina. Her medical history included hypertension and a cardiac murmur, which had already been diagnosed during a medical examination when she was 18 years old. In 1991, she was evaluated because of symptoms of dizziness and near collapse during exertion. Besides systolic hypertension, no structural heart disease was found except for a mild aortic regurgitation and a peak systolic pressure gradient of 17 mmHg (heart rate 68 beats/min) over the aortic valve. She was treated with antihypertensive drugs and visited her cardiologist on a regular, yearly basis. Because of therapy refractory hypertension she was also referred to the internist to exclude underlying causes of her hypertension, but no underlying cause was diagnosed. When she was 50 years old, she stopped smoking because mild chronic obstructive pulmonary disease was diagnosed. At that time echocardiography showed left ventricular hypertrophy (septum en posterior wall diameter both 12 mm) with normal systolic function, still a mild aortic regurgitation and a peak systolic pressure gradient across the aortic valve of 28 mmHg (heart rate 64 beats/min). In the meantime, she was treated with four different antihypertensive drugs, but she remained hypertensive. To evaluate her complaints of angina in 2007 a nuclear exercise stress test was performed, which showed signs of reversible perfusion defects in the inferior, posterior and lateral walls suggestive of myocardial ischaemia. During following cardiac catheterisation, via the right femoral artery, the catheter could not be advanced up the ascending aorta because of a discrete narrowing of the aorta (Fig. ). Catheterisation performed via the radial artery showed a significant stenosis in the circumflex artery which was subsequently dilated and stented. The calculated peak pressure gradient across the narrowed thoracic aorta was 30 mmHg. Additional computed tomography (CT) scan of the aorta confirmed the diagnosis of coarctation with a pinpoint stenosis in the aorta just distal to the left subclavian artery. Moreover, an extensive collateral network, mainly consisting of bronchial and lumbar arteries, was seen (Fig