A 16 year-old non-obese Hispanic girl with approximately a seven-week history of migraine headache presented to our emergency department in the early summer of 2000 with a sudden onset of left hemiparesis. Her previous migraine episodes were accompanied by nausea and photophobia but were neither associated with aura nor complicated by neurological deficits. There was no family history of migraine or stroke. She did not smoke and had never used oral contraceptives, hormonal treatment or illicit drugs. She had been otherwise healthy. Earlier on the day of presentation, the patient experienced an aura of tingling in her left hand that rapidly progressed to involve her left face and leg. The patient subsequently developed a complete left hemiplegia. One hour after the onset of symptoms, the patient was found to also have a complete left hemisensory loss. Her symptoms resolved completely as she was undergoing a head computed tomography (CT) scan and CT angiography, both of which were normal. There was no evidence of cerebral vasculopathy. Following the CT angiography the patient developed another episode of transient left hemiplegia that rapidly improved but left a residual mild pronator drift. Fluid-attenuated inversion recovery MRI of the brain was performed two and a half hours after onset of her initial symptoms and revealed increased signal intensity in the right basal ganglia extending into the posterior limb of the right internal capsule, most consistent with an acute ischemic infarct (Fig. ). Diffusion-weight MRI and apparent diffusion coefficient confirmed the presence of an ischemic infarct (images not shown). The patient was started on intravenous heparin to maintain a partial thromboplastin time of 60-80 seconds. Evaluation for a possible coagulopathy prior to initiation of heparin, inborn error of metabolism and mitochondrial disorders was unremarkable. A trans-esophageal echocardiogram revealed no evidence of a patent foramen ovale, thrombus, or other structural abnormality. Approximately six hours after the onset of hemiplegia, the patient developed a right temporal pulsatile headache associated with left arm tingling which rapidly resolved. M