A 65-year-old woman was admitted to the ICU with acute respiratory distress and circulation insufficiency. Besides a history of Waldenstrom’s macroglobulinemia that had not required active treatment, she had no history of health problems, infections or recent hospitalisations. She was a lifelong non-smoker, lived in a rural home with her husband, and handled firewood for home heating. Four days prior to admission the patient noted fever, chills, dyspnoea with dry cough and diarrhoea. On the day of admission, these symptoms were more severe, and an ambulance had been called because of syncope. Her ability to oxygenate deteriorated progressively during the first hospital day, and she was intubated and mechanically ventilated.
Chest X-ray on admission showed bilateral diffuse lung infiltrates and signs of interstitial oedema. Large bilateral pleural effusions were noted, and >1000 ml were drained. Echocardiographic examination identified normal left ventricular wall motion, and no signs of structural abnormalities or of pulmonary hypertension. Thin-cut CT images of the lungs on the third ICU day showed diffuse bilateral alveolar and interstitial infiltrates with dependent consolidation (Fig. ). The clinical course during the first seven days was dominated by respiratory insufficiency requiring maximal ventilatory support with high levels of inspired oxygen, as well as circulatory shock requiring treatment with vasopressor and inotropic infusions. Other important clinical aspects included coagulopathy with diffusely spread petechiae, progression of renal failure with anuria requiring dialysis, and elevated levels of LDH (Table ). She was treated presumptively for bacterial pneumonia and sepsis with a series of broad spectrum antibiotics and corticosteroids, without apparent response.
Hantavirus infection was verified with the detection of PUUV RNA in plasma (630,000 copies/ml) on the day of admission, while IgM and IgG were negative. Seroconversion with positive IgM and IgG occurred two and seven days later, respectively. Consecutive plasma samples were analysed for PUUV RNA with declining viral copy numbers until