A 16-year-old male patient who was previously fit and healthy presented initially with sudden onset of lower abdominal pain. He had not suffered from similar pain in the past. He had not suffered from any significant medical diseases. He smoked up to 16 cigarettes a day, his bowel and bladder habits were regular. There was no family history of inflammatory bowel disease. Physical examination revealed his heart rate was 111 beats per minute and he was apyrexial. On abdominal examination he was tender over both iliac fossae, more on the right side. Blood tests showed white cell count was 12 and C-reactive protein was <6. Urinalysis was positive for nitrates and protein. Based on his clinical presentation and elevated white cell count he was diagnosed to have appendicitis. He went on to have open appendectomy; later we found the histology did not reveal any inflammation.
Three months later the teenager presented again with right iliac fossa pain and signs of local peritonitis. Laboratory tests revealed white cell count was 18.1 and C-reactive protein was 51. A laparoscopy was performed which showed postoperative adhesions which were released. This was followed by recovery and discharge from the hospital. Following his discharge he re-presented within a period of two months with right iliac fossa pain and an elevated white cell count of 13 and C-reactive protein of 248. The clinical presentation was investigated with a computed tomography (CT) scan of the abdomen and pelvis which did not reveal any abnormality in the right iliac fossa; the rest of the abdomen was unremarkable.
Persisting pain and escalating inflammatory markers prompted a laparotomy which revealed thickened ileocaecal area suggestive of inflammatory bowel disease. Following recovery, the provisional diagnosis of inflammatory bowel disease was investigated with colonoscopy with terminal ileal biopsies, oesophagogastroduodenoscopy and barium-follow-through all of which were in the normal range. However the barium follow-through, all of which were normal. An isotope-scan (white cell tagged) showed