A 73-year-old woman initially presented 3 years ago with a three-month history of cough with purulent sputum, anorexia and weight loss. She had retired as a driving instructor and had a 50-pack/year smoking history. Chest radiograph and computed tomography (CT) demonstrated a thick-walled cavity with an air fluid level in the right upper lobe (Figure a). Sputum culture grew a fully sensitive Streptococcus milleri.
Subsequent bronchoscopy (three days into treatment with antibiotics) was macroscopically normal and the washings were negative for acid-fast bacilli, bacteria and fungi. Cytology showed benign inflammation with no malignant cells. She was discharged home on oral antibiotics after clinical and biochemical improvement following a week of intravenous antibiotics.
Two weeks later she represented with acute worsening of breathlessness. CT pulmonary angiogram showed no emboli but the cavity had decreased in size with resolution of fluid content (Figure a). On this occasion she was treated for likely exacerbation of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and discharged. At her outpatient follow-up all her symptoms had resolved and the chest radiograph showed further resolution of the right upper lobe abscess (Figure b). She unfortunately did not attend any further follow-up appointments.
Three years later she again presented with anorexia, weight loss and purulent sputum. On this occasion she also had back pain and mild hypercalcaemia. Over the last six months she was empirically treated for infection with little improvement in her symptoms. Chest radiograph showed a soft tissue mass at the right apex and right hilar lymphadenopathy (Figure c). CT confirmed a right cavitating mass (at the site of previous abscess cavity) with local rib invasion, bilateral adrenal and widespread bony metastases (Figure b). Features were consistent with a disseminated lung cancer (T4 N2 M1b). Histological confirmation was not sought as the result would not have affected the palliative treatment approach chosen in view of poor performance status and advanced chronic lung disease