A 72-year-old male, smoker with a past medical history of arterial hypertension, high blood cholesterol and ischemic cardiomyopathy, had suffered a transient episode of slurred speech a week earlier that resolved within 4 hours.
The patient presented to the emergency department with gait instability and unclear speech. Physical examination of the patient revealed blood pressure 130/60 on the right arm and 150/75 on the left, weak pulse in both legs and no radial pulse in the arms. Neurological examination showed unclear speech and gait instability without other abnormalities. The National Institute of Health Stroke Scale (NIHSS) was 2. The Canadian scale was 10.
Electrocardiogram revealed sinus rhythm. Computed tomography (CT) of the brain showed prior lacunar infarcts in both basal ganglia and a subacute lacunar infarction affecting left paramedian thalamus.
Transcranial Doppler ultrasound was normal. Extracranial Duplex ultrasound showed diffuse cervical atheromatosis including non-relevant (< 50%) carotid plaques and indirect hemodynamic signs of bilateral subclavian artery (SA) stenosis (delayed increase in systolic flow with monophasic flow profile instead of a normal triphasic profile). Interestingly, both vertebral arteries (VA) also showed delayed systolic flow increase (Fig. ). A bilateral subclavian steal phenomenon was then suspected and arm compression test with a blood-pressure cuff was performed. The test was repeated on both arms; release of the pressure cuff led to reverse flow in the right VA and loss of diastolic flow in the left VA (Fig. ). The arm compression test was repeated because of the patient's neurological symptoms while we recorded basilar artery (BA) waveforms (Fig. ) by means of transcranial Doppler. The normal anterograde BA flow became retrograde following the causative ischemia test in either arm (Fig. ).
The suspected diagnosis was athero-embolic stroke affecting left thalamus due to proximal left subclavian atheromatosis. Additionally, the patient suffered bilateral subclavian steal phenomenon, mainly on the right side. The patient was admitted to