A 65-year-old woman was admitted acutely via the Accident & Emergency Department (A&E) with severe pelvic pain. Plain radiographs performed on admission revealed right-sided pubic rami fractures and discontinuity of the sacral alae suspicious of sacral fractures (Figure .) On questioning she gave a history of sudden onset pelvic pain with no prior history of trauma. She was a smoker, had previously consumed excessive amounts of alcohol as well as not following a particularly well-balanced diet. Since being widowed she had suffered an anxiety disorder which had prevented her from leaving the residential home she lived in. Following her menopause at the age of 47 years she had commenced hormone replacement therapy (HRT) which was discontinued 4 years later. Routine bloods taken on admission were all normal including the initial C-reactive protein (CRP). Subsequent additional blood tests revealed normal vitamin D, parathyroid hormone and thyroid function.
Due to the severity of symptoms, the patient experienced pain disproportionate to that expected with a simple pubic rami fracture and lack of mobility despite analgesia and physiotherapy; an isotope bone scan was performed. Increased uptake was noted in the right pubic bone and both sacral alae consistent with both pelvic and sacral insufficiency fractures. A further area of increased uptake was identified in the lower thoracic spine representing a vertebral crush fracture (Figure ), which was confirmed with plain radiographs of the thoracic spine. Initial management was with analgesia and subcutaneous injections of calcitonin. These were later changed to two infusions of pamidronate and subsequently alendronate with calcium and vitamin D supplementation. Following a 2-week period of titrating analgesia and intensive physiotherapy, our patient was mobile with a Zimmer frame.
Unfortunately days later she began to complain of a supra pubic mass and associated discomfort. Examination revealed a 5 × 5 cm fluctuant swelling to the right side of her vulva. Ultrasound imaging performed the same day supported the surgical opinion that this was likely