A 39 year-old woman, known case of neurofibromatosis from childhood, was admitted to the emergency department because of one-week history of intractable bloody diarrhea. She had suffered from chronic intermittent bloody diarrhea for eight years. Within these years, she received 5-aminosalisylate drugs irregularly with only slight improvements in her complaints. In our first visit, her major complaint was bloody diarrhea and colicky abdominal pain. Symptoms such as nausea, vomiting, anorexia, fever, or fecal incontinence were not mentioned. She had more than eight episodes of diarrhea each day and also nocturnal episodes, interfering with her sleep, for a week prior to the visit. Her stool was mixed with bright red blood.
She remembered no important childhood or adulthood illness except a systolic hypertension diagnosed eight months ago and controlled by metoprolol 25 mg/day. She was not a smoker and did not mention alcohol consumption. She had a history of three admissions for resection of schwannoma of peripheral nerves in lower extremities. One of her daughters had skin lesions compatible with neurofibromatosis. There was no positive family history for Inflammatory Bowel Disease (IBD).
The patient was a middle-aged woman, ill appearing and cachectic. Her vital signs were stable. Physical findings on examination of heart and lung were normal. Abdomen was soft and on superficial palpation, a plenty of freely movable, soft, and non-tender subcutaneous and intradermal nodules of varying sizes were detected. She had left lower quadrant tenderness. On skin examination, there were widely distributed freckles and hyper pigmented macula and patches with sharp border of variable sizes (). The hyper pigmented brown patches were mostly seen on abdominal and lumbosacral areas. Extraintestinal manifestations related to IBD were not detected.
After admission, the patient was ordered to take nothing by mouth and parenteral fluid administration was started for her. Laboratory data were as the followings: WBC 5600 with 20% lymphocytes, Hb 12.8