A 35-year-old right-handed healthy male, without any significant past medical history, was brought to the emergency room following the above said mishap. On examination he was hemodynamically stable and maintaining adequate saturation in room air. He was also drowsy and responding to deep painful stimuli with a Glasgow coma scale score of 10. Both pupils were equally reacting to light. There was no focal or lateralizing neurological deficit or evidence of seizure episode.
There was a lacerated wound of 11 X 4 cms over the forehead with tissue loss []. The wound was grossly contaminated with sand, mud and burnt cloth pieces with tobacco which was used for haemostatic purpose in folk medicine. There was no active bleed from the wound site. After an initial assessment, the wound was irrigated with normal saline.
The trauma series X-rays were normal and focused abdominal sonogram for trauma (FAST) was negative. A non enhanced computerized tomography (CT) serial axial section of 5 mm thickness of the skull revealed bilateral frontal and ethmoid comminuted depressed fracture. There was bilateral anterio inferior frontal lobe hemorrhagic contusion with focal cerebral edema. The subarachnoid pneumocephalus and hemosinus of frontal and ethmoid were also noted [Figures and ]. The ventricular system and the posterior fossa were normal with no midline shift.
The patient was subjected to surgery to elevate the depressed segment, debridement and for dural repair. Dural tear was present in right frontal region and brain matter was herniating through it. The site of injury was irrigated and cleaned with limited local debridement and the dura was then closed in a watertight fashion. Depressed fontal bone fragments were elevated, the wound closed in layers and a compression dressing was applied. He was given broad spectrum antibiotics, analgesics and tetanus vaccination along with fosphenytoin as antiseizure prophylaxis. The postoperative course was uneventful and the patient was discharged on day seven