A 27-year-old man (173 cm, 68 kg) was referred from the department of internal medicine to our pain management center for abdominal pain. He described the pain as being continuous and cramping in addition to being localized in the left lower quadrant. On physical examination, he had no tenderness in the abdomen. Large meals worsened his pain but the pain did not fluctuate in intensity. He had no change of bowel habits or sleep disorders. He stated that his symptoms had started with epigastric discomfort and soreness 7 to 8 years ago and was variable thereafter. He had received medical treatments at local internal and oriental medical clinics without a significant improvement and then visited this hospital 2 years ago. His numeric rating scale (NRS) for pain scored 7/10 (7 out of NRS scale of 10 [0: no pain, 10: imaginable worst pain]).
He had no other chronic disease, did not smoke or drink alcohol. The results of an esophagogastroduodenoscopy taken at this hospital 2 years ago had no specific findings except for chronic superficial gastritis. Abdominal ultrasonographic and blood tests were normal. Colonoscopic findings at a local clinic 16 months ago were also normal. He was prescribed proton pump inhibitors, antacids, digestants and prokinetics intermittently, but these had no beneficial effects. Five months ago, he had abdominal and pelvic computerized tomography, but there were no significant findings except for two simple cysts in the right kidney.
We decided to perform a diagnostic left thoracic splanchnic nerve block under the diagnosis of functional abdominal pain syndrome (FAPS). Informed consent for the block was obtained from the patient after explaining the purpose of and what was expected from the procedure and its potential complications. With the patient in the prone position, a pillow was inserted under the abdomen to reduce lumbar kyphosis. Electrocardiogram, pulse oximetry, and arterial blood pressure were monitored during the procedure, and periprocedural intravenous hydration was performed using