Here we report a 48-year-old male case of EAML of the kidney which is a relatively newly described renal neoplasm and is closely related to the more common classic AML of the kidney and perivascular epithelioid cell neoplasm of extra-renal sites [].
The ethical committee of our institute gave us permission for the current publication. The patient gave informed consent and is aware of this case report.
The patient arrived at our institute, complaining of severe pleuritic chest pain for approximately three months. He was not a smoker and did not consume any illicit drug or alcohol. He had never experienced urinary problems. His past medical history was unremarkable. He had no history of previous surgery.
On physical examination, a huge abdominal mass was palpated in the left flank. Incredibly, he did not feel this enormous mass earlier which may suggest the rapid growth of the lesion.
There were no abnormal findings in laboratory studies (Including complete blood count, urine analysis and stool examination) except for a slightly elevated Erythrocyte Sedimentation Rate (ESR). Renal and liver function tests were within normal limits. He was admitted for further diagnostic evaluations. The chest Computed Tomography scan (CT-scan) revealed a massive pleural effusion in the left hemithorax. Abdominopelvic CT-scan showed two infrarenal heterogeneous masses arising from the medial pole of the left kidney with significantly increased vascularity. Both masses contained adipose tissue, which was suggestive of either AML or a well-differentiated liposarcoma ().
Purified Protein Derivatives (PPD) skin test and cytopathologic analysis of pleural fluid were done in order to rule out tuberculosis and malignancy respectively. The aspirated fluid only contained inflammatory materials.
Then, he underwent a radical left nephrectomy which is the treatment of choice for huge AML of the kidney based on the literature. Surgery was performed by an experienced urologist, under general anesthesia, and via a midline incision. After exploring the abdominal