A 57-year-old man presented with a chief complaint of a growth in his lower left back tooth region of 15 days duration. The growth had started insidiously and gradually increased to reach the present size. It was asymptomatic, and without any discharge and was not associated with loss of weight or appetite.
On examination, a solitary, oval, sessile growth measuring 3 cm anteroposteriorly 1.5 cm mediolaterally and 1 cm superoinferiorly with distinct borders was evident in the mandibular left retro molar region distal to tooth 37. The growth showed superficial ulcerations with indentations of opposing teeth. Tooth 38 was missing. There was no tenderness or discharge on palpation and it was firm in consistency []. No cervicofacial lymph nodes were palpable. Hematological investigations revealed normal values with nonreactivity for HIV. Also, no radiographic changes were evident in the area of interest.
An excisional biopsy was performed of the lesion along with extraction of teeth 37, 36. The H and E stained sections showed numerous dilated vascular spaces with a single layer of endothelial lining. Smooth muscles cells were found to be arranged concentrically around the blood vessels. The smooth muscle cells had well defined, “cigar shaped” nuclei. The lesion was unencapsulated. Various amount of collagen was found to be interspersed between vascular spaces [Figures and ]. Special staining was performed using Masson's trichrome which stained the smooth muscle cells red and the collagen fibers blue [].
A final diagnosis of angioleiomyoma of the left retromolar area was thus considered.
Two months following the excision of the tumor, the patient reported with similar growth in the same location that had started 10 days prior to his reporting and had rapidly increased in size. The clinical presentation was very much similar to the previous episode []. Excision of the lesion along with a 2 cm margin was performed and histopathology confirmed the lesion to be an angioleiomyoma. There has