A 65-year-old female patient visited our hospital for chronic diarrhea, which developed 3 years prior to the appointment, as the chief complaint. For the treatment of intermittent abdominal pain, dyspepsia and diarrhea, the patient had ingested 10 g/day commercial edible charcoal over a three-year period of time. Her past medical history was not significant for any special finding, nor was her social or family histories. The patient was employed as a housekeeper at the time of evaluation. When queried about drug history, the patient reported no history of smoking, laxatives, or ingestion of herbal medicines. At the time of visit, blood pressure was 102/80 mmHg, pulse rate was 70 times/min, respiration rate was 20 times/min and body temperature was 36.3℃. During palpation, mild tenderness in the lower abdomen was detected. In laboratory findings, blood cell counts and blood chemistry showed normal findings. During the colonoscopy, the large intestine showed normal findings, and in the terminal ileum, several black colored geographic mucosal pigmentations were observed. The boundaries of the lesions were well demarcated, and the adjacent mucosa showed normal characteristics. During the gastroduodenoscopy, mucosal pigmentation was not observed in either the esophagus or the duodenum. To examine the small intestine whether this lesion involved entire small intestine or not, capsule endoscopy was performed, and black pigmentation was observed only in the terminal ileum (). Biopsy was performed on the gross pigment deposition area, at which point several small and large black granules were detected within macrophages present in the mucosa and the lamina propria. With electron microscopy, the deposition of electron dense materials was observed in the microvilli and cytoplasms of the mucosal epithelial cells (). These findings were compatible with melanosis. After the diagnosis of melanosis ilei, the ingestion of charcoal was terminated, and the follow-up colonoscopy was performed 3.5 years later. At this point, the pigment deposition was still observable but had diminished in color intensity ().