A 70-year-old male patient presented with an extensive verrucous, hyperkeratotic tumor on the central aspect of his lower lip (). The tumor had been growing for 1 month. The patient was a smoker and a social alcohol drinker. However, his history of trauma to the lesion was unremarkable and he had no past medical history or family history of similar lesions or other skin diseases. Physical examination revealed an exophytic verrucous yellowish-to-whitish tumor measuring approximately 4 cm in diameter. The patient complained of mild tenderness on the lesion and the tumor was firm upon palpation. No lymphadenopathy was detected on the neck or sublingual area.
Microscopic examination of a punch biopsy specimen revealed an endophytic epidermal proliferation with bulbous and blunted projections composed of large well-differentiated squamous epithelial cells extending into the reticular dermis (). Cellular pleomorphism was minimal and mitotic activity was confined to the basal layer (). Based on these findings, the patient was diagnosed with verrucous carcinoma. Carbon dioxide laser treatment was then performed following tumescent local anesthesia using lidocaine 0.2%.
After 10 days, the wound was completely epithelialized. At this point, topical treatment with imiquimod was started, with application of cream to the washed and dried tumor surface and then washed off 12 hours after application 3 times per week. After 4 weeks of treatment, the verrucous plaques had decreased in size; however, formation of mild erythema and crust with oozing was observed on the tumor and the patient complained of local pain. Therefore, application of imiquimod was then stopped and the patient received oral administration of analgesics and topical application of antibiotics to the tumor. Over a 4-week period of treatment with analgesics and topical antibiotics, local pain, erythema, and crust slowly disappeared. At this point, administration of imiquimod was started again, with application of treatment 3 times per week over a period of 4 weeks. Treatment