The patient was a 32-year-old man with a height of 167 cm and a weight of 52 kg. The patient complained of swelling and pain at the right lower third molar since September 2017. The patient was then referred to the Oral Surgery Clinic at Nagoya City University Hospital. Upon examination, due to the anatomical reasons, tooth extraction under general anesthesia was considered necessary although general anesthesia had a high risk of exposure to many chemical substances.
The patient had repeated headaches, abnormal sweating, and loss of consciousness, which were considered to be caused by exposure to a coworker’s cigarette smoke from 2007 to 2013; he was diagnosed with recurrent acute passive smoking in 2014. In 2015, the patient had similar symptoms even after exposure to a smoke concentration below the reference value as determined by occupational administrative measures (suspended particles of 0.15 mg/m3) and was thus diagnosed with MCS. Since then, the patient experienced sweating and urticaria when exposed to artificial fragrances in shampoo or other substances and subsequently began wearing a sealed gas mask and rubber gloves in his daily life (Fig. ). Table shows the list of foods, chemicals, and other substances that the patient was intolerant to. The preoperative examination revealed no abnormal findings in chest radiography, electrocardiography, and blood tests. The patient was taking oral vitamins, bromazepam, and clonazepam.
During preoperative evaluation before anesthesia, the patient reported sharing a space with a person who uses artificial fragrances such as detergent, fabric softener, or perfume, which causes him to sweat and develops urticaria. He indicated that his allergy to tobacco was the most severe, requiring him to completely avoid contact with smokers. In addition, any material that came in direct contact with the skin may have caused possible allergic reactions; however, this could not be determined until he actually came in contact with those materials. Based on the above history, our anesthetic goals included the