An 18 year old Saudi unmarried male student had been attending the ophthalmology clinic for posterior uveitis for the last few weeks. He was also followed in urology clinic for testicular pain with benign hypo-echoic lesions, presumed to be trauma related, for the last few months. He presented to the emergency room with massive bleeding from mouth, (query hemoptysis versus hematemesis) and found to have cardiac arrest on arrival to the emergency room. The patient had no history of any allergies, surgeries in the past, sexual contacts, smoking, addiction or any familial illnesses. Cardiopulmonary resuscitation was done and he was intubated, ventilated and shifted to intensive care unit. His laboratory data on arrival revealed no significant abnormalities. His endotracheal tube and nasogastric tube continued to drain over 500 ml of bloody aspirate over the next 24 hours, putting the possibility of asphyxia from aspiration of blood as a likely cause of initial cardiac arrest.
He underwent esophagogastrodudenoscopy which showed coffee ground material in stomach but no signs of active bleeding. His toxicology screening and autoimmune profile (rheumatoid factor, antinuclear antibodies) and viral & Brucella serology were all negative. The patient remained intubated and mechanically ventilated with a baseline Glasgow coma scale of 7. His CT (computerized tomography) scan chest with contrast was negative for pulmonary embolism. His echocardiogram on the 2nd post admission was initially suspicious for probable mass versus vegetation over tricuspid valve which prompted IV antibiotics (vancomycin and amikacin) as well as antifungal (amphotericin B) as patient remained culture negative throughout his stay. However, the second echocardiography and cardiac surgery review refuted the need for any surgical intervention for suspected tricuspid lesion due to poor clinical condition of the patient and the paucity of chances for successful repair. The patient remained afebrile from the 3rd post admission day onwards, which prompted the primary physician to discontinue all antibiotics/antifungal after 14 days as all septic screening remained negative throughout. His initial