A 65-year-old woman visited our emergency room with severe dyspnea. Four months before, the patient had developed cardiogenic shock while attempting stent insertion (Endeavor 3.0~18®) into the obstructed left main coronary artery (80%), which necessitated urgent institution of extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO) and intra-aortic balloon pump. After coming off extracorporeal life support systems, she underwent stenting (Taxus 2.75~38®) of the obstructive left anterior descending coronary artery (LAD), which resulted in second attack of cardiogenic shock and ECMO support, which was successfully weaned off. She had been discharged home after these events, and had been followed up in the outpatient department. On arrival at ER, her consciousness was clear, and chest x-ray showed pulmonary congestion. Electrocardiogram showed acute exacerbation of chronic myocardial infarction. On echocardiography, severe mitral regurgitation due to restricted valve motion was noted, and left ventricular ejection fraction was 28%. She developed the third attack of cardiogenic shock during emergency coronary angiogram, and was put on ECMO again (). Coronary angiogram on ECMO support showed restenosis of the previous LAD stent (80%) and complete obstruction of the left circumflex and right coronary arteries. We elected to perform emergency coronary artery bypass grafting and mitral valve replacement. After ECMO circuit was converted to conventional cardiopulmonary bypass using the same femoral artery-vein cannulae, a great saphenous vein graft was anastomosed to the LAD and an additional saphenous vein graft was placed from the LAD graft to the posterior descending coronary artery in an inverted-Y fashion. Operative findings of the mitral valve consisted of severe fibrotic change of the anterior leaflet, dilatation of the mitral valve annulus, and central non-coaptation. A bioprosthetic valve was placed while the native mitral valve leaflets were preserved. The patient was able to come off bypass without any event. Cardiopulmonary bypass time and aortic cross-clamping time were 168 minutes and 85 minutes, respectively. In provision for the later postoperative use,