A 57-year-old man was referred to our department because of a recent aggravation of sensations of coldness, tingling, and pain in the right leg. He had right calf pain for 4 months, which was exacerbated by walking a distance of 500 meters, and occasional nocturnal stabbing leg pain for 1 month. The symptoms described aggravated suddenly 4 days before presentation. He had a medical history of hypertension and operation for a soft tissue mass in the medial side of right knee. He had no other vascular risk factors such as diabetes or smoking. Physical examination revealed pallor, poikilothermia, decreased sensitivity on the pin prick test, and no palpable pulse below the popliteal artery. He had no remarkable findings in CBC and chemistry except for an elevated AST of 78 IU/L (reference value 8~38 IU/L). CT angiography showed severe narrowing of the right popliteal artery, which was compressed by a multi-loculated cystic mass with a largest diameter of 3 cm (). We decided to perform a surgical resection of the lesion because we were concerned about fracturing of the endovascular stent in the frequently bent area.
Under spinal anesthesia he was positioned prone for a posterior approach. When the popliteal artery was exposed, a cystic mass filled with a jelly-like material encased the artery. Pulse was palpable in the proximal part of mass but not in the distal part. In order to facilitate the dissection and make the relationship between mass and arterial lumen clear, vertical arteriotomy was performed after applying proximal and distal vascular clamps. The lumen was intact without thrombus or any endoluminal irregularity (). Complete excision and arterial repair with autologous vein patch was done to prevent stenosis of the arteriotomy site. Pathologic findings confirmed cystic adventitial disease (CAD), based on the presence of multiple mucinous foci of degeneration in the vascular wall ().
He was discharged on the fifth postoperative day, but continued to complain of paresthesia during