A previously healthy 25-year-old man with no known risk factors (no smoking history) visited the emergency room with abdominal and loin pain of 3 h’ duration. The patient's vital signs were stable and physical examination showed no abnormality except tenderness in the right lumbar region of the abdomen and in the paravertebral muscles at L4–L5. Apart from a leukocyte count of 23.79 × 109/L, haemoglobin of 10.8 g/dL and neutrophil ratio of 90.2%, haematological and laboratory values were within normal limits. Normal saline IV infusion and dezocine were administered, and the patient was kept under observation.
Four hours later, a change in consciousness and cyanosis of the lips and extremities were observed; heart rate and blood pressure could not be obtained. Bedside ultrasound showed accumulation of fluid with a hyperechoic mass in the abdominal cavity. Cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR), cardiac stimulants and vasopressors were administered, but the heart rate and blood pressure remained undetectable. The patient died despite resuscitation attempts. Because of the unclear circumstances of death, a medical-legal autopsy was performed.
Autopsy was performed on the day after death. No obvious abnormalities were observed on external examination apart from mild postmortem lividity. No unusual findings were noted in the head and neck region. With the exception of sternal fracture with surrounding soft tissue haemorrhage caused by CPR, there were no specific findings in the thoracic cavity. Five hundred millilitres of fluid blood and 1 100 g of clotted blood were present within the abdominal cavity. A 2.5-cm longitudinal tear was found in the intimal layer of the right common iliac artery, forming a thrombosed false lumen that involved the abdominal aorta proximally and the left common iliac artery ((A)). The dissection extended 7 cm along the longitudinal axis of the abdominal aorta and 4.5 cm along the left common iliac artery ((B)). The source of bleeding was a 0.7-cm adventi