A 32-year-old man fell from a high place and sustained a comminuted fracture in the right distal radius (AO classification type C1). He underwent open reduction and internal fixation using a volar plate at an emergency hospital. He visited the outpatient clinic of our department 24 months after the initial surgery because wrist pain had increased during his work. Radiographs showed an irregular articular surface of the distal radius due to poor reduction in the initial surgery (). An examination revealed a restricted range of motion of the wrist joint (flexion/extension 40°/30°) and grip strength had decreased to 20% of the healthy side.
Removal of the plate and radiolunate arthrodesis with a free iliac bone graft was performed in our department (). The radiolunate fusion was done through a dorsal approach. However, the pain was still present at 6 months postoperatively, and radiography showed nonunion and loosening around the screws (). The patient was then treated with a vascularized bone graft from a medial femoral condyle bone flap (). First, an external fixation device was used for the purpose of load reduction on the radiocarpal joint. Next, after exposing the radiocarpal joint, the fibrous damaged tissue including the iliac crest and screws at the nonunion site were removed. The damaged articular cartilage and subchondral bone were sufficiently excised to expose the underlying cancellous bone. The descending genicular vessels as the vascular pedicle were elevated with the periosteum and bone cortex and cancellous bone at the right medial femoral condyle bone (pedicle length 50 mm, vascularized graft segment 30 × 10 × 10 mm). The size of vascularized graft segment was decided considering intraoperative measurement of the bone defect. The bone graft was tailored to fit the radiocarpal joint and was placed between the lunate and distal radius with a slight distraction of the lunate, decompressing the scaphoid (). Then, the bone graft was fixed with two headless compression screws at both the lunate and distal radius sites. End to end