A 36-year-old smoking woman (16 pack years) with a past medical history of three pregnancies, appendectomy and cholecystectomy, referred to her physician with symptoms remembering her previous pregnancies. She was under birth control pill but presented with a 7-week amenorrhea and a β-hCG level of 850 UI. Her body mass index was of 18 and the physical examination revelaed breast enlargement. A pelvic ultrasound exploration showed a uterine vacuity with a left lateral uterine heterogeneous mass. Even with no bleeding and no pain, ectopic pregnancy was suspected. She was referred to a first gynecologic center where she underwent surgical treatment. Laparoscopic exploration detected a 4 cm left ovarian cyst, a voluminous hematoma of the left broad ligament of uterus nearby the left suspensory ligament, and voluminous left pelvic varicose veins. The hematoma was spreading along the left salpinx. To rule out ectopic pregnancy and as the hematoma was extensive, left adnexectomy followed by uterine curettage were performed. Despite surgical treatment, β-hCG increased from 850 to 900 UI, therefore medical treatment by methotrexate was prescribed.
Pathologic examination found no signs of ectopic pregnancy or malignancy.
Despite methotrexate treatment, β-hCG still increased to 1,335 UI two weeks later. She was referred to our center from this moment. An extragonadal germ cell tumor was suspected and a computed tomography (CT) scan was performed. It showed a voluminous anterior mediastinal tumor with no radiological compressive signs and no other extension site. αFP and angiotensin- converting enzyme were negative. The review of the chest X-ray showed an evident anterior mediastinal tumor ().
After multidisciplinary agreement, biopsy through the mini-invasive right anterior video assisted thoracotomy was performed for neo-adjuvant chemotherapy adaptation to histological proof. Pathologic examination concluded a NSGCT with choriocarcinoma characteristics and reported positivity of β-hCG and placental alkaline phosphatase.
First line chemotherapy was based on etoposide, ifosfamide and cisplatin (VIP). In the