A 16-year old male patient reported to the Department of Oral Medicine and Radiology with a complaint of progressive flattening of left side of face since the age of 2 years which was continuous to date. Patient gave a history of pigmentation of his left face since birth which had been gradually fading over the years. No history of trauma or surgery was reported and there was no positive family history of facial atrophy. Neither was there a family history of consanguinity. His delivery was not assisted, per vagina. The medical history was not contributory, and he was not on any form of medication. Patient denied history of smoking or alcohol intake. Patient was moderately built and nourished.
On physical examination, he was conscious, oriented, and afebrile. His general condition was fair with vital signs within normal limits. On extraoral examination, facial asymmetry was detected due to hypoplasia of left malar region (). There was atrophy of left masseter muscle and fat with prominence of the left infraorbital ridge and zygoma. The right face appeared normal. Examination of the face revealed no sensory or motor deficits on both sides. The left eye appeared depressed in the socket (enophthalmos) due to loss of periorbital fat with minimal drooping of the left eyelid ( and ). Increased lacrimation was associated with enophthalmos. There was a deviation of mouth angle to the affected side at rest. Pigmentation was noticed on the left cheek which also involved the left palpebral conjunctiva (). Systemic examination of the central nervous system was normal. Fundus examination was also normal.
Based on the clinical findings and history, a clinical diagnosis of Parry-Romberg syndrome was made. Routine blood investigations revealed all values within normal limits.
As a part of radiographic investigations, a panoramic radiograph was taken. The radiograph revealed no significant findings (). Axial and coronal computed tomographic (CT) images revealed hypoplasia of the left zygomatic complex, maxillary sinus