A 48-year-old previously healthy woman visited our emergency department due to intractable substernal chest pain. Laboratory tests showed elevated serum cardiac enzymes, which indicated non-ST elevation myocardial infarction (creatine kinase-MB=14.8 ng/mL, Troponin I=3.44 ng/mL). She had no risk factors for coronary artery disease including a history of smoking, diabetes mellitus, hypertension, and dyslipidemia. She did not have a family history of coronary artery disease or gestational morbidity. She had visited another hospital due to chest pain 8 days before admission to our institution. A diagnosis of unstable angina was made and a coronary angiogram was performed, which revealed coronary artery lesions involving the left anterior descending (LAD), diagonal, and ramus intermedius coronary arteries (). Her intractable chest pain persisted despite medical treatment including aspirin and the continuous infusion of heparin and nitroglycerin by our emergency department. A coronary angiogram was performed again and demonstrated aggravated coronary lesions () and multiple luminal narrowings even in the left internal thoracic artery (ITA). Because of the intractable chest pain associated with the rapidly progressing nature of the coronary lesions, the patient was referred for urgent myocardial revascularization. She underwent off-pump coronary artery bypass (OPCAB) using a skeletonized right ITA graft as a blood source. The patient was given an initial dose of heparin (1.5 mg/kg) and periodically received supplemental doses to maintain an activated clotting time longer than 250 seconds during OPCAB. Because her skeletonized right ITA was too short to reach the target left coronary arteries, a segment of the reversed saphenous vein was anastomosed to the end of the right ITA in an I-fashion and grafted to the diagonal and LAD coronary arteries, and the ramus intermedius using a sequential grafting technique. Upon opening the coronary arteries, the lumen was almost completely filled with diffuse fresh thrombi. When the fresh thrombi were removed through the coronary arteriotomies, neither coronary artery dissection