A 54-year-old male presented with masses on his left arm and axilla. The axillar mass was 12 × 7 cm and the mass in the proximal lateral humerus was 6 × 5 cm. His symptoms had started a number of years prior. Before the initiation of these symptoms, he denied having any significant medical problems. He had a history of smoking for 20 years. In his family history, no relevant medical condition and/or history of cancer was identified. He had been referred to a surgerical clinic three years prior in which he had a biopsy of the tumor reported as mucinous adenocarcinoma. It appears that he had been evaluated only for possible intestinal primaries at that time and having failed to identify the primary, had been sent to receive radiotherapy of unclear dosage. After the recurrence of his tumor, he was referred to the medical oncology department at our hospital with a mass in the left thoracic region and another in the left humerus, visible on X-rays (). His examination revealed a mass in his left breast besides the aforementioned ones. His biopsy materials were reevaluated in our pathology department and confirmed to be metastatic adenocarcinoma. The report also indicated that the mass might be breast originated, raising the suspicion towards a possible breast primary. He was then given neoadjuvant chemotherapy consisting of docetaxel and capecitabine for six cycles following the decision of our tumor council.
An magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scan was obtained following the cessation of his chemotherapy revealing a 140 × 100 × 90 mm lobulated mass in the proximal epiphyses, metaphysis and diaphysis of the left humerus, which was destructing the cortices on multiple sides with a large soft tissue component, and invading and protruding out of the skin ().
Another mass, 123 × 54 × 74 mm in size, was located in the axillary region adjacent to the thoracic wall infiltrating the skin, surrounded by multiple nodular masses of different sizes. These masses also invaded the brachial plexus and the vessels. There were other masses also in