The patient was a 64-year-old female with a past medical history of hypertension, diabetes mellitus type 2, and hyperlipidemia referred to urology clinic for evaluation of a 5 cm left-sided renal mass that was incidentally discovered during evaluation for diarrhea and flank pain. She denied any history of gross hematuria or other urinary symptoms. She had no significant past medical history. The patient had never smoked and denied a family history of renal malignancy. On physical examination, she was found to be in no acute distress, and appeared generally well (ECOG performance status 0). There were no carotid bruits or neck masses palpated. Her chest was clear to auscultation bilaterally and her abdomen was soft, nontender, and nondistended without palpable abdominal masses or costo-vertebral angle tenderness. Laboratory evaluation including comprehensive metabolic panel, complete blood count, and urinalysis were within normal limits.
Computed tomography of the abdomen and pelvis with contrast demonstrated a 4.9 cm by 5.0 cm by 5.8 cm endophytic interpolar left renal mass (Figures and ). Chest CT with contrast demonstrated a 12 mm right lower lobe pulmonary nodule, which was noted to have been stable on prior imaging up to eleven years previously and was interpreted as a granuloma. Finally, she was found to have a slightly enlarged thyroid gland with several small calcified nodules ().
The patient was counseled regarding options for management and underwent hand-assisted laparoscopic radical nephrectomy. The surgical procedure was uncomplicated with an estimated blood loss of 25 cc. She tolerated surgery well, and, following an uncomplicated recovery, was discharged from the hospital on postoperative day three.
Histopathology revealed a 6.5 cm mass consistent with metastatic follicular variant of papillary thyroid cancer (). The diagnosis was confirmed with immunohistochemistry as the tumor cells were CK7 (+), TTF1 (+), and Thyroglobulin (+) but CK20 (−) and WT1 (−). The soft tissue and vascular