A 52-year-old female presented with a 6-month history of ulceration to the dorsal aspect of the left foot. She related the wound first occurred due to an injury involving a fall from a doorstep 1 year prior and admitted to intermittent swelling and difficulty ambulating ever since. The patient underwent surgical debridement twice for repeated infections at the wound site. Her primary care physician had most recently initiated local wound care by a home health provider on a daily basis consisting of moist gauze dressings since she lived alone and had no other caretakers. She denied being on current antibiotics but stated she was given antibiotics prior to each of her surgeries for the foot. She reported using a wheelchair for the majority of her activities due to her unstable gait. Her past medical history was significant for poorly controlled diabetes mellitus, hyperlipidemia, hypertension, peripheral neuropathy, and glaucoma. She denied drug allergies or use of tobacco or alcohol.
Physical examination revealed a well-nourished individual in no distress and stable vital signs. The left lower extremity demonstrated loss of protective sensation, palpable dorsalis pedis and posterior tibial pulses, and pitting edema circumferentially about the foot and ankle. A full-thickness ulceration with fibrogranular base was located at the dorsal aspect of the foot measuring 4.5 cm×2.1 cm with probing to bone, expressible purulence, and periwound erythema. Plain film radiographs and computed tomography of the foot and ankle revealed lateral subluxation of the second through fifth tarsometatarsal joints with dorsal subluxation of the metatarsal bases with osseous fragmentation, cystic osteolysis, and remodeling, in addition to partial collapse about the first tarsometatarsal joint. Magnetic resonance imaging showed extensive marrow edema and enhancement involving the first metatarsal suspicious for osteomyelitis. This constellation of clinical and diagnostic imaging findings were most consistent for Charcot midfoot neuroarthropathy superimposed with osteomyelitis (). Preoperative laboratory analysis, chest radiographs, and electrocardiogram were unremarkable.