A 57-year-old man presented at our hospital with a massive hemoptysis. The patient had received medical treatment due to a mild fever, cough, and yellowish sputum that developed 10 days prior, but the symptoms had not improved. Furthermore, his oral intake had become worse 5 days before and hemoptysis started 2 days before admission to our hospital. At first, about a 10 mL of bloody sputum developed, but the amount progressively increased and eventually approximately 100 mL of bloody sputum was produced per hour. The dyspnea and chest pain became aggravated after the hemoptysis occurred. The patient was a white-collar worker, who had smoked 1 pack of cigarettes per day for 40 years and had consumed 1 alcoholic drink per day, 4 times a week, for 40 years. He had been diagnosed with diabetes mellitus at a regional hospital 3 years earlier and was still on medication. His pertinent surgical history was a bilateral knee replacement 2 years earlier. He was also diagnosed with bronchiectasis at a regional hospital 3 years earlier, and received medical treatment for the bronchiectasis 1 year earlier. At the time of that treatment, he did not undergo a bronchial artery embolization, but continued to receive drug therapy. The three months prior to admission at our hospital, episodic chest tightness developed, which became aggravated especially after intensive exercise. He reported that a reevaluation of his chest tightness and dyspnea at a regional hospital had not revealed any specific findings other than bronchiectasis. When admitted to our hospital, his blood pressure was 117/59 mmHg, heart rate was 87 beats/min, respiratory rate was 19 breaths/min, and body temperature was 37.6℃. The laboratory test results were within normal limits except the WBC (12,400/µL) and CRP (10.08). The electrocardiogram on admission showed a normal sinus rhythm and a chest radiograph showed a bronchiectatic change in the left lower lung (). Contrast-enhanced multidetector chest computed tomography (MDCT) revealed