A 46-year-old female with a history of diabetes mellitus, morbid obesity, peripheral vascular disease, and dense peripheral neuropathy was initially treated in another facility (private outpatient clinic) for a calcaneal puncture wound with multiple incision and debridement procedures. The patient had a history of smoking for many years and also sustained a calcaneal osteomyelitis secondarily to the original infection with Staphylococcus aureus and Pseudomonas aeruginosa organisms ().
In our facility, the patient had immediate non-invasive vascular studies that were followed with a lower extremity angiography that showed a vascular occlusion of the popliteal artery around the popliteal fossa (). The patient had agreed to quit smoking and was educated on a diabetic diet regimen with tight control over her blood sugars. At that time, the vascular surgery team performed a lower extremity bypass surgery (femorotibial) with the use of a saphenous vein graft while our team performed a simultaneous aggressive debridement of all the necrotic bone and soft tissue. Intraoperative bone and soft tissue cultures and biopsies were also obtained.
A postoperative regimen of deep vein thrombosis prophylaxis (low molecular heparin) and intravenous antibiotics based on the culture results (Keftazidim: 2 g ×3 doses and Vancomycin: 500 mg ×3 doses) were initiated and the patient's vascular status of the lower extremity was monitored for approximately 3 weeks. A significant improvement of the skin temperature and blood perfusion of the limb was observed and it was confirmed with further Doppler non-invasive vascular studies.
At that time, the patient then had further surgical debridement and closure of the large calcaneal defect with a reverse flow sural neurofasciocutaneous flap. At the beginning of the surgery, a revisional resection of the calcaneal osteomyelitis was performed. The exact bone resection was defined with a macroscopical inspection under loop magnification (6×) combined with blue methylene fast staining and successive immediate multiple irrigations with normal saline solution. The procedure was followed with the flap dissection of the sural artery and associated neurovascular structures that were