A 58-year-old woman visited our hospital for evaluation of chronic hepatitis C. The patient was diagnosed as chronic hepatitis C 10 years ago, but had not received any treatment. She had been taking amlodipine 5 mg for hypertension for 8 years. She had no history of alcohol consumption, smoking, or injection drug use. Dermatological, pulmonary, cardiac and neurological examinations were normal. On her first visit to our hospital, the liver function test and the complete blood cell count were normal, and the serologic tests for hepatitis A and B and HIV were negative. She was infected with hepatitis C virus (HCV) genotype 1b, and HCV RNA level was 3.8×106 copies/mL. There were no specific findings except for the hepatic cyst from abdominal CT scan. Liver biopsy was recommended to evaluate liver inflammation and fibrosis, but she refused. She was commenced on pegylated interferon-α2b 80 µg (1.5 µg/kg) weekly by subcutaneous injection and ribavirin 400 mg orally twice daily. Serum HCV RNA level decreased below 25 copies/mL within 12 weeks after the start of interferon, thus she achieved an early viral response.
After 9 months of interferon and ribavirin treatment, the patient complained of blurred vision and headache. On physical examination, the vitiligo around her forehead and scalp was shown (), but there was no sign of meningeal irritation. Optic fundal examination showed uveitis and retinal edema. Retinal fluorescein angiography () showed leakage of fluorescein dye from the choroid into the subretinal space. The serous retinal detachment was seen clearly in the right eye from optimal coherence tomography (). Cerebrospinal fluid examination and the magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) to identify the encephalomeningitis showed no abnormal findings. The level of angiotensin-converting enzyme showed normal range, the erythrocyte sedimentation rate and the C-reactive protein were also normal, and the antinuclear antibody and the rheumatoid factor were negative. She was diagnosed as having incomplete VKH disease, therefore pegylated interferon