A 55-year-old male patient, diagnosed as quadriplegia by intracerebral hemorrhage resulting from rupture of a cerebral aneurysm on the left middle portion of the brain, was hospitalized in the rehabilitation medicine department of our hospital to receive expansive rehab ilitation. There was no past history of high blood pre ssure, diabetes, tuberculosis or hepatitis, but he had a smoking history of 20 years and a clinical history of recurrent pneumonia accompanying pleural effusion. On physical examination, crackling was auscultated at the lower right lung and there was no special diagnosis except dyspnea. On October 30, 2007, 4 days after an operation for intracerebral hemorrhage, tracheotomy was conducted and the patient remained with the tracheostomy tube for 6 months, until May, 2008. When he was hospitalized at my clinic on 12th, June, 2009, a nasogastric tube had been continually inserted for >1.5 years and was used for nutrition intake after the intracerebral hemorrhage. A videofluoroscopic swallowing study (VFSS) was conducted and a slight aspiration was observed with solid and semi-solid foods. However, when using a compensation technique by tossing his head toward the paralyzed side, it was confirmed that food entered the esophagus without aspiration. After removing the nasogastric tube and offering sufficient education regarding the compensation technique, oral feeding was started. Since then, when eating using the compensation technique, there were incidents of fitful cough, sputum, fever, and a chest x-ray revealed increased haziness on the left lung, so antibiotic treatment was started under the diagnosis of aspiration pneumonia. However, there was no improvement, so gastric emptying scintigraphy was conducted for detecting other etiologies (). On the gastric emptying scintigraphy, a leak of contrast medium was observed in the middle of the esophagus to the right, and tracheoesophageal fistula was suspected. Therefore, CT was conducted on the chest for an exact diagnosis (). On the image of the chest CT, a cavitary lesion containing 1.8 cm sized