A 69-year-old man was seen in his primary care office during summer complaining of profound fatigue, fever, and right upper quadrant (RUQ) abdominal pain. His symptoms have been intermittent, occurring without a particular pattern over the last two months. With time, the intensity and frequency of his symptoms had increased which prompted him to seek medical evaluation. His abdominal pain was intermittent, dull, and nonradiating, without prandial or positional component. Medical history was significant for mild intermittent asthma, benign prostatic hyperplasia, and squamous cell carcinoma of the tongue for which he underwent partial tongue resection followed by radiation one month prior to the onset of current symptoms. He was a former smoker and did not drink alcohol or use illicit drugs or over the counter medications. He lived in the Midwestern United States and had not traveled outside the country. He denied having any pets or contact with animals. Family history was negative for inherited hypercoagulable disorders or cancer. His age appropriate cancer screening was up to date, and he was considered cured from his locally invasive tongue cancer.
In the office, he was found to have fever of 39°C, a heart rate of 102 beats per minute, a blood pressure of 148/81 mmHg, and normal respiratory rate and oxygen saturation. Physical exam was remarkable for well-developed, ill-appearing man in no acute distress. There was no cervical lymphadenopathy or mouth ulcer, and the tongue resection site appeared well healed without erythema or exudate. The teeth appeared healthy without caries or gingivitis. Tonsils appeared healthy and without erythema or exudate. The lungs were clear to auscultation bilaterally; heart sounds were regular and without murmurs. His abdominal exam was significant for right upper quadrant (RUQ) tenderness on deep palpation without signs of peritonitis, and bowel sounds were normoactive. He had no skin rashes, telangiectasia, or icterus. Neurological exam was nonfocal. Complete blood cell count (