A 63-year-old man came to the outpatient department of Saveetha Dental College and Hospital, Chennai with the chief complaint of pain and swelling in the left side of face since two months along with pain on mouth opening. He also gave history of nasal obstruction with occasional epistaxis. His past medical and surgical history is non-contributory. He had the habit of tobacco, betel nut chewing for the past eight years. He had also undergone uneventful extractions.
Extra oral examination revealed a diffuse swelling on the left side of the face, in the maxillary region. The left infraorbital region was tender on palpation. Intraorally an ulcerated proliferative growth was seen on the left alveolar maxillary region in 24-27 region along with obliteration of buccal vestibule. The surface of the growth was covered with necrotic tissue with pus discharge and bleeding []. Limitation of mouth opening along with bilateral ulceration, bleeding and crust formation at angle of mouth was also observed. Generalized mobility of the teeth was also seen.
The OPG revealed a radiolucent area with bone destruction and obliteration of antrum on the left side. The CT scan revealed a huge enhancing lesion involving the entire left maxillary sinus causing erosion of its superior, medial, and postero-lateral walls, extending up to the nasal cavity, left ethmoid sinus and retro maxillary space [].
Microscopic examination of the biopsy specimen revealed pleomorphic undifferentiated epithelial cells in the form of nests and trabeculae separated by thin fibrous connective tissue septa []. The cells were of variable size and shape, large cells with amphophilic cytoplasm with round to oval diffusely hyperchromatic nuclei with or without small nucleoli are seen interspersed with cells which have vesicular nuclei and prominent nucleoli []. Very few areas of squamous cells were appreciated along with areas of necrosis and increased mitotic activity.
Immunohistochemical assay revealed immunoreactivity of the neoplastic cells to cytokeratin (CK7, 8, 19) [] and epithelial membrane