The first case was of a 55-year-old, previously healthy, male patient. He presented with vague abdominal pain and discomfort after meals. He had a history of heavy alcohol consumption and smoking. His symptoms began 4 months before admission. Initially, he underwent an upper GI endoscopy that revealed an H. pylori-positive gastritis. Thus, he was treated with proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) and antibiotic administration. Although his follow-up endoscopy showed remission of the initial findings, the symptoms remained. He was afterward referred to our department. His physical examination revealed no particular findings apart from mild pain during the left upper abdominal quadrant palpation.
Patient's laboratory evaluation revealed elevated serum γ-GT: 135 U/L, LDH: 250 U/L, and glucose: 165 mg/dL. Also, CA 19.9 was slightly elevated at 45 U/L. The rest of the laboratory values were within normal values. His upper abdominal ultrasound showed a mass located at the tail of the pancreas measuring 10 cm, and the computed tomography scan that followed revealed a cystic mass at the tail of the pancreas, with a max diameter of 12 cm (Figure ). Following these findings, an abdominal magnetic resonance imaging scan confirmed the previous studies, with a well-defined solid cystic lesion, unable to further specify character of the tumors. Also, the patient underwent endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) that showed a large solid, heterogeneous well-circumscribed pancreatic cystic mass, but failed to aspirate content for cytology examination. As the EUS-FNA performed could not exclude a potentially malignant cystic lesion, the suspicion of a cystic tumor of the tail of the pancreas leads the multidisciplinary team to suggest surgical exploration. Laparotomy revealed a cystic mass of the tail of the pancreas measuring 12 cm. In addition to this, the splenic vein was occluded by the mass prior to its confluence with the superior mesenteric vein. As a result, distal pancreatectomy and splenectomy were performed.
Pathology report revealed a