The patient, a 77-year-old man, was being evaluated for a solitary, slowly growing, pulmonary nodule in the left lower lobe. On computed tomography examination, the lesion measured less than 2 cm, showed ill-defined limits and was located peripherally in the upper part of the lobe, without pleural involvement. The patient was a smoker with ischemic heart disease. Cytological material was obtained by transthoracic fine-needle aspiration and during an intraoperative consultation procedure. Samples showed a similar image consisting of numerous lymphoid cells admixed with epithelial clusters. Most lymphocytes were small, mature and were accompanied by lymphoglandular bodies, a few plasma cells and macrophages without granuloma formation. Epithelial groups had a variable appearance. Some of them were small, monolayered and composed of normal looking pneumocytes. In contrast, a few groups exhibited larger epithelial cells with nuclear pleomorphism and nucleoli [Figure , ]. Due to the abundance of lymphocytes and relative scarcity of atypical cells that were accompanied by benign looking ones, a cytological diagnosis of suspicious for malignancy was made. Similar problems occurred during the intraoperative procedure. The tumor measured 1.5 cm, and frozen sections revealed prominent lymphoid stroma, fibrosis and distorted glands without clear evidence of malignancy. Scrapping cytology samples showed a similar image to that seen on aspiration. Lobectomy with regional lymph node resection was performed. The tumor measured 1.5 cm, had a soft consistency and was ill defined, with a pale brown color, difficult to differentiate from the surrounding parenchyma. It consisted of variable sized glands, some of them irregular, immersed in a prominent lymphoid stroma with follicle formation. Neoplastic cells were cuboid to columnar with moderate atypia and low mitotic index [Figure , ]. No pleural, lymph node or bronchial involvement was observed. Immunohistochemistry showed characteristic features of primary lung adenocarcinoma with expression of cytokeratin 7, thyroid transcription factor-1 and napsin A. There was no expression of cytokeratin 20, thyroglobulin, or latent membrane