A 50-year-old male was admitted to our hospital for optimal control of blood sugar. The patient had been diabetic for 1 year and was being treated with an oral hypoglycemic agent. A recent blood sugar profile indicated a poorly controlled state, with glycated hemoglobin of 9.6%. The patient had a 30-year smoking history. In the previous month, the patient had been hospitalized via the emergency department to evaluate acute chest pain and minimally elevated serum cardiac troponin I. Coronary angiography conducted under the impression of unstable angina revealed an intermediate lesion at mid-left anterior descending artery (LAD). The patient was treated with medical therapy. On discharge, the patient received a beta-adrenergic blocker and isosorbide dinitrate, but ceased taking the nitrate several days later because of severe headache.
On the 5th hospital day in the morning, the patient developed excruciating chest pain followed by drop of systolic blood pressure to 70 mm Hg. Heart rate was 69 beats/min, and breathing rate was 28/min with 98% oxygen saturation on nasal oxygen (3 L/min). The patient was acutely ill looking, with a pale expression and profuse perspiration. Physical examination revealed fine rales on the bilateral lung field. However, cardiac murmur, friction rub, hepatomegaly, and peripheral edema were not present. An electrocardiogram showed wide QRS complex with right bundle branch block type morphology, and ST-segment elevation in multiple sites including inferior and anteroseptal leads (). Chest radiography revealed evidence of pulmonary edema in both lung fields (). The patient was first treated with crystalloid fluid resuscitation and an infusion of an inotropic agent (dopamine). Initial assessment of the patient suggested the possibility of cardiogenic shock either from right ventricular infarction complicating acute inferior myocardial infarction or from extensive myocardial infarction due to proximal occlusion of left coronary artery. Because of the profound hemodynamic instability, the patient was immediately transferred for cardiac catheterization. On arrival at the catheterization room, the patient developed ventricular fibrillation () and was successfully