A 42-year-old male visited the emergency department complaining of chest pain. He had previously been admitted 3 months ago due to similar symptoms, and was diagnosed with acute pericarditis according to the features of typical chest pain and findings of electrocardiography (ECG) and echocardiography (). Ibuprofen and colchicine were administered and the symptoms improved within 24 hours. At the time, he was discharged after 5 days, and he had stopped taking the medications by himself after 2 weeks as he did not feel any continuing symptoms.
At admission, he complained of severe chest pain which had begun 4 hours prior to admission. The pain increased with deep breathing and position change. He also complained of palpitation which had been present prior to the development of chest pain. The patient had no relevant abnormal medical history and no current medication, and reported to have lost 2 kg during the past 2 months. He was a 14-pack-year smoker, but denied any alcohol use.
Upon general examination, he appeared acutely ill. His vital signs in the emergency department were as follows: body temperature 36.9℃, pulse rate of 121 beats per minute, and blood pressure 140/89 mm Hg. The heartbeat was regular and no cardiac murmur including precordial friction rub could be identified. In addition, the lung sound was clear. There was no thyroid enlargement or neck vein engorgement.
Laboratory results including complete blood count, biochemistry profile, and cardiac enzymes were within normal limit. The chest radiograph finding was normal. ECG showed sinus tachycardia and diffuse concave ST-segment elevation in all leads except aVR and V1. PR segment was normal (). Transthoracic echocardiography showed normal systolic and diastolic function of the left ventricle (LV) and a scanty amount of pericardial effusion at the LV posterior side (). Echocardiography that had been performed at the previous admission had shown constrictive physiology, but no such finding was visible this time. Cardiac magnetic resonance