A 55-year-old male was referred to our department for total abdominal aorta obstruction with intermittent claudication. At first, he visited the emergency room with epigastric pain. He had a history of hemigastrectomy and gastrojejunostomy for acute gastric ulcer with perforation 4 years ago. He also had a history of diabetes mellitus and 30 pack-years smoking. Abdominal sonography showed the pancreas of diffuse enlarged parenchyme with normal common bile duct. Abdominal computed tomography (CT) showed the swelling of pancreas and small amount of fluid retention around pancreas with no demonstrable bile duct stone and total occlusion of infrarenal aorta to both common iliac arteries. After he completed antibiotics therapy for acute pancreatitis and cholangitis, he was transferred to our department for treatment of total occlusion of abdominal aorta ().
CT angiography showed total occlusion of infrarenal aorta, both common iliac arteries and left external iliac artery with collateral arterial flow into both femoral arteries. CT angiography also showed focal short segmental stenosis in superior mesenteric artery origin area with abundant collateral flow. Preoperative ankle-brachial indices were 0.49 and 0.42 (right and left). Considering relatively young age of the patient, durable bypass procedure like aortobifemoral artery was needed. However, the patient has previous abdominal surgery for gastric ulcer perforation and recent inflammatory conditions, pancreatitis and cholangitis. After discussing various surgical alternatives, we decided to perform descending thoracic aorta to both femoral artery bypass surgery to avoid operation in a hostile abdomen.
With double-lumen endo-tracheal intubation to allow deflation of the left lung, the patient was positioned with the right semi-lateral position. The pelvis was placed flat to allow access to both groins. Left posterolateral thoracotomy was performed through the eighth intercostal space, then, the distal descending thoracic aorta just above diaphragm and both femoral arteries were exposed simultaneously. The distal descending thoracic aorta was mobilized from the parietal pleura to allow placement of a partially occluding clamp and a stab wound was made for graft. Leaving the