A 48-year-old male patient reported to the department of oral medicine and diagnosis with chief complaint of pain and swelling in the upper right gums. The patient noticed the nodule some 2 months back and pain since 2 weeks. The patient had a habit of smoking but had no familial cancer background. The clinical examination revealed a large mass of 8 × 3 cm in dimension on buccal aspect of right maxillary alveolus involving marginal, attached, and interdental gingiva []. The growth was blackish gray with intact surface. The margins were well defined. Anteriorly, it extends from the gingiva of mesial surface of 22, to the gingiva in relation to 17 posteriorly. Superiorly, the lesion extended to involve the upper buccal vestibule. Medially, it extended to involve the palatal mucosa. 13 was missing and 12 was displaced laterally; while, 11, 12, and 21 exhibited mobility.
The palpatory findings revealed a firm consistency of lesion with mild pain. The regional lymph nodes were non-palpable. A complete examination of the lesion was done and no other primary site of the lesion was found. Correlating all clinical features, diagnosis of primary malignant melanoma of oral cavity was made and the patient was referred for further investigations. The radiographic features showed no evidence of destruction of underlying bone. A computed tomography examination of neck, chest, abdomen, and bone scanning and ultrasounds of liver and kidney were normal excluding any diagnosis of distant metastasis.
An incisional biopsy was done for the lesion under local anesthesia and the specimen was sent for histopathologic examination. The gross examination of tissue revealed a mass of 2 mm × 3 mm × 1 mm in size, which was black in color and firm in consistency. The hematoxylin and eosin-stained section showed a melanin-producing tumor, consisting of atypical irregularly elongated spindle and oval-shaped melanocytes, exhibiting uniformly dark, enlarged and irregular nuclei []. In the superficial layers of the tissue, a junctional nevus with pigmentation was found