A 73-year-old man was admitted to our emergency department with chest pain. As he stated, he had been suffering from pain without radiation for the past 30 minutes, accompanied by nausea, vomiting, and diaphoresis. He claimed that he had had a previous similar episode the day before his admission, but the pain had resolved spontaneously after about one hour. He had a history of cigarette smoking, hypertension, and respiratory disease, for which he had received no appropriate and regular medical care. He had used Atenolol for the last three months in an irregular manner. No abnormal findings were detected on his physical examination (blood pressure = 140/80 mmHg, heart rate = 60 bpm, and normal breathing and heart sounds). His initial electrocardiogram (ECG) showed a left-axis deviation and left anterior hemiblock with ischemic changes (inverted T wave) on its pericardial leads. He had elevated cardiac troponin, and no other significant abnormalities were detected in his blood tests. He underwent medical management for acute coronary syndrome, and his pain was reduced within his first hour of admission. Echocardiography was performed for the patient and revealed a moderate left ventricular (LV) dysfunction with an LV ejection fraction of 40% and anterior and lateral wall hypokinesia. Mild LV hypertrophy was also detected. The patient was scheduled for coronary angiography on the following day. No chest pain or other symptoms were reported during the first night. The next morning, the ECG showed the evidence of a posterior (lateral) myocardial infarction (MI).
The patient underwent cardiac catheterization via the standard Judkins techniques. The selective angiography of the left coronary artery showed a critical and thrombotic stenosis on the midportion of the LAD as well as a moderate lesion on the midportion of the left circumflex (LCx) artery (). Mild stenoses were also detected at the proximal end of the LAD and high obtuse marginatus. The LAD ran through the interventricular groove but at the end of the midportion, it deviated from its