A 43-year old man with a sudden onset of headache, nausea and vomiting visited the emergency room at our institution. He had a history of hypertension that was being controlled with medication and smoking. His aunt suffered from moyamoya disease, but he had not undergone diagnostic work-up for familial cerebrovascular diseases because he had not experienced neurological deficits such as ischemic attacks, including dysarthria, dizziness and gait disturbances. Mentally alert, the patient had meningismus, experiencing neck stiffness on admission.
A brain computed tomography (CT) scan demonstrated diffuse and thick subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) in the bilateral sylvian fissures, the anterior interhemispheric fissure, the basal cistern and the posterior fossa, including the perimesencephalic region (). Subsequent carotid angiography showed complete occlusion of both ICAs, the so called 'bottle neck appearance' or 'beak shape,' at the level of the carotid bulb without appreciable intracranial filling and there were small collaterals from both external carotid arteries through the middle meningeal arteries to the anterior cranial fossa (). Vertebral artery angiography demonstrated that both hemispheres were seen filling in an antegrade fashion from the upper basilar artery and both posterior cerebral arteries through an extensive network of collateral vessels to the ICA bifurcations. A 6 × 4 mm aneurysm was also observed at the basilar artery bifurcation (). Perfusion CT scans revealed no reduction of cerebral blood flow and normal cerebrovascular reactivity to acetazolamide (). The abdominal CT aortograms did not demonstrate any other extracranial pathological vascular findings, including renal artery stenosis and fibromuscular dysplasia (figures not shown).
The patient underwent endovascular coiling under general anesthesia for the ruptured basilar tip aneurysm. Two Guglielmi electrically detachable platinum coils and two hydrosoft helical coils were successfully deployed into the aneurysm. We tried to deploy a microplex coil at the lower neck portion of the aneurysm, but failed due to the wide neck of the aneurysm. The balloon or stent-assisted technique was not used