A 60-year-old woman was referred to our hospital with a pulmonary nodule in the right upper lung seen on chest radiograph during a routine health checkup. She had been treated curatively with surgical resection for papillary thyroid carcinoma 3 years ago. She had never smoked. There was no history of respiratory illness such as tuberculosis. Her vital signs were normal, and physical examination revealed no abnormalities. Laboratory data were within the normal range except a tumor marker, carcinoembryonic antigen, which had a level of 6.07 ng/mL. Pulmonary function testing revealed no ventilatory defect.
A chest radiograph showed a nodule in the right upper lung (). A chest computed tomographic (CT) scan showed a peripherally located 2.4×1.8 cm sized solid nodule in the anterior segment of the right upper lobe (). Fluorine 18-labeled fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG)-positron emission tomography-CT scan revealed abnormal FDG uptake in the right upper lobe lung nodule and in the right hilar lymph node (). She underwent CT image-guided percutaneous core needle biopsy of the nodule in the right upper lobe. Additionally, a flexible bronchoscopic examination was performed to identify the endobronchial lesion. At bronchoscopy, a few small variable-sized protrusions were observed in the proximal left main bronchus and a biopsy was performed ().
The needle biopsy specimens of the right lung nodule showed non-mucinous adenocarcinoma with a lepidic and acinar growth pattern (). Immunohistochemical stains were positive for cytokeratin (CK) 7 and thyroid transcription factor-1, and negative for CK20 (). Histopathology of the bronchoscopic biopsy specimens of the left main bronchus lesions showed diffuse proliferation of atypical lymphoid cells beneath the mucosal epithelium (). Immunohistochemical stains showed diffuse strong positive for CD20, and were negative for pan cytokeratin and CD10 (). The proliferation fraction (Ki67) was very low (<5%). The bronchial lesion was diagnosed as extranodal MZL. A bone scan and a brain magnetic resonance imaging study found no other abnormal