A 52-year-old woman visited the department of orthopedic surgery due to the pain in her left hip for 3 months. She was a housewife who had never smoked, and she had been taking a medicine for hypertension. She had no recent trauma. A fracture of left femoral head and the enlarged right inguinal and the left iliac lymph nodes were found on the hip magnetic resonance imaging. She was referred to pulmonology department because her chest X-ray showed multiple bilateral lung masses (). The only respiratory symptom was mild dry cough. We found a lung mass that surrounds the left lower lobar bronchus, multiple peripheral lung masses, and the lymph node enlargements of the mediastinal areas from the chest computed tomography (). On both sides of her lower neck, multiple lymph nodes were palpable. The routine laboratory findings were not remarkable.
She had a history of total hysterectomy for uterine MMMT () one and a half years ago. Multiple pelvic lymph node enlargements were found 6 months later and a recurrence of MMMT was confirmed by surgical biopsy. At that time, there was no small cell carcinoma component in uterine cancer pathologically. No further treatment for MMMT was given to her. Based on her past history, we initially suspected lung and femur metastases of MMMT. The protruding mass lesion on the orifice of the left lower lobe basal segment was found and biopsied by the bronchoscopy. However, the pathologic features of this mass was the typical small cell lung carcinoma () rather than metastatic MMMT from uterus. We assumed that all of these findings are attributable to small cell lung cancer, and we started the treatment accordingly. She was treated with etoposide plus cisplatin. Radiation was delivered to her femur for palliation of pain. After 2 cycles of chemotherapy, most lesions that were located relatively central (mediastinal lymph nodes and the mass around the left lower lobar bronchus) slightly decreased, but the most of peripheral masses increased (). In the meantime, she had to undergo hemiarthroplasty