A 43-years-old male patient reported to the Department of Oral Medicine and Radiology, Bapuji Dental College and Hospital, Davangere with the chief complaint of swelling in the gums in right upper front teeth region for fifteen days. The growth pattern of the tumor was slow and gradual without any associated symptoms. Patient is a known tobacco chewer and an alcoholic since ten years. Extraoral examination revealed a diffused swelling in the right side of the upper lip extending from the midline to the corner of the upper lip below the ala of the nose and above the upper line of the lip. There was mild obliteration of the nasolabial sulcus. The skin over the swelling was normal with no rise in temperature and non-tender on palpation. Intraoral examination revealed a solitary swelling seen on the upper labial mucosa which is 3 × 2 cms in size extending from right maxillary lateral incisor to right maxillary first premolar involving the attached and the marginal gingiva. The swelling was roughly oval in shape, superoinferiorly involving the mucogingival line and free marginal gingiva. The surface is lobulated, mildly erythematous with well-defined borders []. The radiographic evaluation with an orthopantogram (OPG) showed an ill-defined radiolucency extending from the right upper central incisor to the right upper premolar []. Intraoral periapical radiograph (IOPA) also revealed radiolucency in the periapical region of the right lateral incisor and canine []. A differential diagnosis of central giant cell granuloma was given and an incisional biopsy was sent for histopathological examination. Histopathological examination revealed an epithelial neoplasm composed of discrete sheets, islands and strands of polyhedral epithelial cells in a fibrous stroma []. Cellular outlines were distinct and prominent intercellular bridges were noted. Considerable nuclear pleomorphism was a frequent finding []. Areas of amorphous eosinophilic hyalinized (amyloid like) extracellular material are also present. The tumor islands frequently enclose masses of this hyaline