A morbidly obese 66yr old white female with history of hypertension, diabetes, ischemic cardiomyopathy eventually leading to cardiac transplantation 11 years earlier and end stage dialysis-dependent renal disease, required admission to Intensive care unit for worsening respiratory failure and hypotension. She had formerly been a smoker, and was morbidly obese with obstructive sleep apnea. In addition she had been maintained on chronic immunosuppressant therapy following cardiac transplantation. She was intubated and started on mechanical ventilation. Hypotension and peripheral edema worsened and laboratory values revealed marked anemia, with initial hemoglobin of 8.8gm/dl and a creatinine of 4.8mg/dl. She was treated on the lines of septic shock and hemodialysis was started for renal failure. Eventual blood cultures showed gram negative septicemia. Chest X-ray showed pulmonary vascular congestion and a probable left pleural effusion. Although she slowly improved hemodynamically; she could not be weaned off the ventilator. Given the suspicion of a significant left pleural effusion, consultation was obtained for chest tube drainage. A 28 French trocar tube was inserted, and immediately yielded massive drainage of frank blood. Her hemoglobin dropped from 8.8 to 5gm/dl. The chest tube was clamped promptly and she was resuscitated with multiple units of blood transfusion, blood pressure was stabilized. A Chest x-ray [] showed a chest tube near the midline. Breath sounds were still audible over both hemithoraces. CT scan of the chest [Figures and ] showed presence of the chest tube in left main pulmonary artery. Atelectasis and consolidation of the left lung were also evident. Contrast injection through the chest tube confirmed its presence in the left main pulmonary artery []. Plans were made for surgical removal of the tube, possibly requiring cardiopulmonary bypass. It was noteworthy that each attempt to unclamp the chest tube resulted in frank hemorrhage through the tube. Preparations were made and the patient was taken to the operating room. Pump