An 84-year-old man presented with chest pain on left side. He was a smoker of 60 years' standing and had been previously diagnosed with hypercholesterolemia. However, he had no past history of hypertension or diabetes. A chest X-ray showed markedly dilated aortic notch. Computed tomography (CT) aortography revealed an ARSA originating from the distal aortic arch, distal to the left subclavian artery and crossing the mediastinum between esophagus and trachea, and a thoracic aortic aneurysm with a diameter of 67 mm and a thrombus extending from the left subclavian artery origin to the proximal descending aorta involving the right subclavian artery origin (). The ascending aorta was also dilated with a maximal diameter of 40 mm and showed partial calcification on the anterior aorta wall. Electrocardiogram was nonspecific. Echocardiography showed normal sized cardiac chambers with left ventricle ejection fraction of 74%. Thoracic aortography confirmed the CT findings. Coronary angiography demonstrated 50% narrowing of the proximal left anterior descending artery. CT brain also revealed that the circle of Willis and both vertebral arteries were patent. Results of laboratory tests showed elevated total serum cholesterol (237 mg/dL) and low density lipoprotein cholesterol levels (164 mg/dL).
We decided to perform a staged hybrid procedure combining surgical replacement of the ascending aorta and bilateral carotid-tosubclavian artery bypass with implantation of a stent graft in aortic arch and descending aorta. In the first stage of the procedure, the ascending aorta was replaced by a graft. Under general anesthesia, median sternotomy was performed. Cardiopulmonary bypass was performed after cannulation of the right axillary artery and the right atrium. The ascending aorta was clamped and the heart was arrested with cold antegrade cardioplegia infusion. After selective antegrade cerebral perfusion was started, the ascending aorta was replaced using 4-branched hemashield graft (28, 10, 8, 8, 10 mm, Boston Scientific, Wayne, NJ, USA). Two 10 mm graft branches were ligated. The other two 8 mm graft branches