In November 2009, a 52-year-old Korean woman who had never smoked presented with a history of isolated coughing. Chest computed tomography (CT) scan revealed a 4×3 cm sized mass on the upper lobe of the left lung (). Percutaneous needle biopsy of the lesion revealed adenocarcinoma. There was no evidence of metastases in bone scan, brain magnetic resonance imaging, or positron emission tomography (PET)-CT scan. Finally her disease was clinically staged as T2aN0M0. Polymerase chain reaction-based DNA sequencing of the EGFR gene revealed an activating mutation (Leu858Arg) in exon 21 of the EGFR gene. She underwent lobectomy of the upper lobe of the right lung. Tumor was a 4.0×4.0×3.5 cm in size and directly extended to visceral pleura on pathologic examination. She subsequently received three cycles of adjuvant chemotherapy with paclitaxel and cisplatin from December 2009. Following adjuvant chemotherapy, evaluation with chest CT scan, PET-CT scan and bone scan every three months revealed no evidence of recurrence until March 2011 when multiple small nodules were developed on both lung fields. Wedge resection of the upper lobe of the left lung was performed and metastatic adenocarcinoma was pathologically confirmed in the specimen. The DNA sequencing of the EGFR gene of resected specimen did not revealed any activating mutations of the EGFR gene. She received four cycles of chemotherapy with irinotecan and cisplatin and her disease was shown to be stable. In December 2011, pulmonary nodules were newly noted in the upper lobe of the left lung (). Then treatment was switched to the erlotinib monotherapy, 150 mg once daily. Her disease was shown to be partial response to the treatment by criteria of Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid Tumors version 1.1 in February 2012 and has been stable until June 2012. During the treatment, she experienced skin rashes on her face, chest, and scalp, which were adequately controlled with topical therapy. In addition she was complained of excessive elongated irregular growth of both eyelashes which irritated