A 52-year-old male patient without any relevant medical history visited the hospital with a symptom of recent lower abdominal pain. The patient had been smoking for 35 years and had a past history of heavy alcohol consumption. He received a lipoma surgery for a palpable mass pressure in the anterior neck portion 3 years ago. For the first time in his life, the patient received colonoscopy, which showed multiple polyps of different size and shape in the terminal ileum, the colon and the rectum (), especially hundreds in the rectum. Several biopsies were taken throughout the entire large bowel including the terminal ileum, and they were histopathologically confirmed as inflammatory and hyperplastic polyps. Physical examination revealed that the head circumference of the patient was 630 mm (for reference, the average and 99 percentile occipitofrontal circumferences of Korean males between 50 and 59 years old are 568 and 601 mm, respectively), suggesting macrocephaly. Also black pigmented cutaneous papules could be seen on the lips and multiple soft humps were found in the posterior neck, arm, and hip. The neck computed tomography (CT) revealed dense fat masses in the posterior neck as well as in both the submandibular and supraclavicular areas (). The upper GI endoscopy revealed multiple mucosal papillomas at the gingiva, oral cavity, soft palate, pharynx, and epiglottic areas (). There were also elevated flat lesions of whitish color in the esophagus, and biopsies showed they were squamous acanthosis. The multiple round gastric and duodenal polyps of various sizes were turned out to be hyperplasia ().
Considering all symptoms and the results of the examinations, CD was the most likely clinical diagnosis. Imaging studies of the brain, thyroid, chest, and abdomen as well as PTEN gene mutation test were performed. At thyroid ultrasonography (USG), an oval shaped isoechoic nodule of 1.2 cm in diameter was found in the isthmus. The fine needle aspiration (FNA) was consistent with nodular hyperplasia. The abdominal CT