A healthy 24 year-old male presented to the Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery Department at Tufts Medical Center for evaluation and treatment of dental malocclusion with skeletal facial discrepancy by his orthodontist. The patient was diagnosed with masticatory dysfunction secondary to maxillary hypoplasia and transverse discrepancy as well as mandibular prognathism resulting in a severe class III malocclusion and elected to undergo orthognathic surgery for its correction. Before the surgery, he underwent leveling and alignment of both maxillary and mandibular arches and removal of all four third molars. The preoperative evaluation and work-up were performed by the surgical team and planned for a 2-piece Lefort I osteotomy for maxillary advancement of 3mm, a bilateral sagittal split osteotomy for mandibular setback of 6mm, an advancement genioplasty of 8mm and maxillo-mandibular fixation (MMF).
Two weeks prior to the procedure, he underwent a preoperative evaluation by the consultant physician and the concerned anaesthetist and was medically cleared by his primary care physician. On our preoperative assessment, the patient weighed 89 kg, was alert, awake, and oriented to person, place, and time. He denied any cardiovascular, pulmonary, renal, hepatic, gastrointestinal, genitourinary, hematologic, endocrine, or psychiatric disorders. He denied taking any medications and had no known reported drug allergies. Pertinent social history included being a fourth-year medical student with a supportive family structure, social alcohol use, and no tobacco or other illicit substances.
Intravenous access was obtained in the preoperative holding area and the patient was transferred to the operating room. Intravenous induction was performed by the anesthesia team and the patient was easily intubated through the right nares with a number 8 size nasoendotracheal tube which was taped at the 29 cm mark by the oral and maxillofacial surgery team. Bilateral breath sounds and capnography confirmed tube placement. The patient underwent a 2-piece Lefort I osteotomy for advancement of 3 mm, a Bilateral Sagittal Split osteotomy