A 31 year old Muslim female patient, housewife by occupation, reported to our department of psychiatry accompanying her family members with recent onset of aggressive behavior with friends and family. On detail enquiry, her family members revealed that they have noticed a change in her behavior for the last four months which apparently started about 16 -18 days after her first delivery. The complaints included use of abusive language, fearfulness, talking to self, absconding tendencies, dressing unusual clothes, and history of persecutory ideas, saying that her friends and family members are spying against her and they are planning to hurt her. She also complained of hearing voices conspiring against her. Recently her sleep pattern has also become quite irregular, sleeping for only few hours a day, and not doing house hold work. She neglected her personal hygiene as well as her child's care. Patient had a full term hospital delivery with history of postpartum haemorrhage during the delivery. There was failure of lactation after her delivery and since then she had amenorrhea. There was no past history of any psychiatric or neurological illness in her or any of her family members. She was neither a smoker nor a drinker and had never abused illicit drugs. There was not any past forensic record related to her. Her family members had attended various faith healers, and surprisingly not consulted any doctor for her abnormal behaviour. On general physical examination, she looked pale and anaemic; breast atrophy was present; as were features of hypothyroidism. She was afebrile, and vital signs were normal. She was oriented to time, place, and person. Neurological examination revealed bilateral up going plantars. Her gait was normal. Mental status examination revealed her appearance as unkempt, apathetic and uncooperative. Her speech was largely irrelevant and incoherent. Thought had persecutory delusions. Her memory was intact. However, her performance in attention and concentration tasks and verbal fluency