A 60-year-old male experienced one month of escalating bifrontal headaches refractory to analgesics and antibiotics prescribed for presumed sinusitis. The headaches increased during sneezing, bending over, or bedrest and improved when he was sitting or standing. There was no history of trauma. His prior medical history was notable for hypertension and hyperlipidemia. There was no family history of coagulopathy or thrombophilia. He was married, employed, used 0.5 packs of tobacco (7.5 packs/years), consumed alcohol socially, and did not use any illicit drugs. His vital signs were notable for sinus bradycardia with a heart rate of 39 and elevated BP of 184/86 mmHg. He had no other significant findings on physical examination; detailed neurologic examination was unremarkable. Routine admission laboratory studies were within normal limits. Coagulation studies including platelet function assays were normal.
Noncontrasted head CT demonstrated a 19 mm left isodense SDH with 10 mm of midline shift []. The collection was more prominent in the frontal region. A CT angiogram was obtained prior to surgery, and no source of bleeding was identified. He underwent a mini-craniotomy; and repeat CT imaging after the procedure [] demonstrated excellent hematoma evacuation and brain reexpansion.
A scheduled follow up head CT obtained on postoperative day 27 was notable for recurrent SDH with a frontal predilection 
[]. The appearance and location were similar to the initial presentation. He was readmitted to the hospital and underwent SDH drainage via burr hole. On subsequent imaging with MRI, MR angiography, and MR venography, a filling defect was visible in the distal left transverse sinus and no flow was observed in the distal left sigmoid sinus or internal jugular vein. These findings were confirmed on CT venography.
Patient underwent cerebral angiography on postoperative day 7 after SDH evacuation []. Left carotid injection was notable for a prominent left vein of Labbe with delayed wash-out, a filling defect in the