A 78-year-old male with a known infrarenal AAA presented with recent left flank pain at the Urology Department of Severance Hospital. The patient had previously undergone a percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty at the mid right coronary artery (RCA) due to inferior wall myocardial infarction 22 years ago and had been regularly followed up. In addition, he also had a past history of hypercholesterolemia and benign prostate hyperplasia. He reported being a non-smoker without hypertension or diabetes. The AAA was incidentally discovered on coronary computed tomography (CT) taken six years ago and had a maximal diameter of 33 mm.
The CT taken prior to admission demonstrated a thrombosed infrarenal aortic aneurysm with an increased maximum diameter of 63 mm, which prompted a referral to Cardiology (). The proximal aortic neck had an angulation of approximately 45° to the suprarenal aorta, and the length of the aortic neck to the right renal artery orifice was 16 mm. However, the left renal artery orifice was adjacent to the aneurysm, and there was practically no neck. Therefore, if the conventional EVAR technique were to be used, the blood flow to the left renal artery would be compromised due to the stent, inevitably resulting in decreased renal function.
Based on the patient's advancing age and history of myocardial infarction, a preprocedural coronary evaluation was performed. An electrocardiogram showed normal sinus rhythm with ischemic changes in inferior leads, and echocardiography showed reduced left ventricular systolic function with an ejection fraction of 48% and akinesia of the RCA territory. The coronary angiography showed significant tandem stenotic lesions of the proximal and distal left anterior descending artery, which were subsequently treated with drug-eluting stents (Endeavor Sprint 3.0×24 mm and 2.5×18 mm, Medtronic, Santa Rosa, CA, USA).
Considering the patient's age and history of significant coronary artery disease, we decided to perform EVAR using the chimney technique for AAA during his hospital stay.