A 53-year-old male, chronic smoker, presented with history of left-sided dull aching chest pain for 1 month and significant weight loss of 5 kg in 1 month. There were no symptoms of breathing difficulty, hemoptysis, bony pains, or lumps noticed anywhere in body. Evaluation included a contrast-enhanced computed tomography (CT) of thorax which revealed a left upper lobe peripherally situated mass of size 2 × 2 cm involving chest wall, enlarged pretracheal, prevascular, and aortopulmonary window nodes, and mild left pleural effusion.
The common differential diagnoses for weight loss and lung mass with lymphadenopathy in a male smoker in our country are chronic obstructive lung disease, chronic bronchitis, tuberculosis, pneumonia, and lung cancer. Clinical history and thorough examination should be made with careful palpation of the neck for lymphadenopathy and chest auscultation. A chest radiograph is the basis of imaging and is complemented by a contrast-enhanced CT scan of the chest, which should include the liver and the adrenal glands. Tissue diagnosis is mandatory if the clinicoradiological suspicion of malignancy is high and a biopsy should be performed either by bronchoscopy or with CT guidance. If confirmed to be malignant, further staging workup would be required if the chest CT scan shows non-metastatic disease. A metastatic workup would include a positron emission tomography (PET)-CT scan and a magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scan of the brain.
Our patient presented to us with a CT scan showing a left upper lobe mass with ipsilateral mediastinal lymphadenopathy and a small pleural effusion. His vitals were normal, physical examination was unremarkable, and ECOG performance status was 1. Fiber optic bronchoscopy showed no endobronchial growth. Diagnostic thoracentesis was performed. Pleural fluid cytology was positive for metastatic squamous cell carcinoma.
Conventional cytologies such as sputum examination, bronchial lavage, bronchial brushings, fine-needle aspiration biopsy have played an important role in the diagnosis of primary and metastatic lung cancers