The 62-year-old male patient in this case report had a smoking history of more than 30 pack-years and a medical history of hypertension and diabetes. He had had a percutaneous coronary intervention 6 years previously due to angina and had noticed a cold and numbing sensation in the extremities of both hands for the previous 3 years. Two years previously, the patient's fourth finger on the left hand had experienced blue discoloration, with extreme pain of greater than 90/100 mm on the visual analogue scale (VAS), followed by ulceration. After a few tests at the orthopedic clinic, the patient had been diagnosed with Buerger's disease. He had been referred to the pain clinic for conservative treatment one year previously. On the patient's upper extremity angiography, greater than 80% stenosis was observed in the first and third finger artery in the area of radial artery and palmer arch, and greater than 90% stenosis was also observed in distal ulnar artery.
At the time of referral, the patient had been taking oxycodone 40 mg twice a day, as well as limaprost 5 µg and gabapentin 300 mg 3 times day. Even with an increase in opiate dose and several chest sympathetic block and stellate ganglion blocks, the analgesic effect was temporal. The pain and ulcers on the fingers worsened, and a finger amputation was planned as arterial bypass surgery was not a valid method for this patient. Although a number of treatments were tried, the patient complained about extreme pain, 90/100 mm on VAS, and there were severe gangrenous ulcers progressing on the fourth finger of the left hand and the index finger of the right hand. The patient was very much against the amputation even though he was under extreme pain and had been referred to the pain clinic several times. Hence, the decision was made to attempt spinal cord stimulation prior to amputation.
The blood pressure, heart rate, oxygen saturation, and electrocardiography were monitored, and, with the patient in the prone position, local anesthesia was performed