In the next part of this document, we discuss the case of CE, a 58-year-old male with chronic paranoid schizophrenia. Institutional Research Ethics Board approval (PSIY-380-12) and patient consent were obtained for the presentation of the current case. CE had been placed on clozapine after several trials of other antipsychotics in 1998, following a prolonged admission at a chronic care facility. He had been stable from that time onwards with clozapine at 500 mg in divided doses, and was residing at a group home under the care of the local assertive community team (ACT). ACTs are multidisciplinary mental health teams that manage individuals with severe mental illness in the community. They originated in North America in the 1980s as part of the planning to deinstitutionalize the chronic inpatient population and transition them in the community. It is an intense form of support in the community in most places in North America to manage severely mentally ill patients with multiple needs who would otherwise be unable to stay outside tertiary care hospitals. This community mental health team offers support in various domains, like medication compliance, maintenance of accommodation, employment, adhering to probation if required, managing addictions, and offering interventions to improve physical health. At some point, the team was considering discharging him to a step-down service in the community. He developed a swelling in the jaw (4 cm mass in the right preauricular region extending down into the submandibular region) and a right axillary mass (6 cm), which was on examination a lymph-node swelling as noted by the family physician. In addition to this, there were bilateral posterior sternocleidomastoid nodes (measuring 1–2 cm). This prompted a referral to an ear, nose, and throat specialist, who diagnosed him with a large B-cell lymphoma. An emergency referral to the hematologist was set in motion. The lymphoma was graded at clinical stage 3A.
This being a treatable form of lymphoma