The first patient was a 24-year-old African American female with past medical history of congenital Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) infection, compliant with antiretroviral therapy (ART) with a CD4 count of 275, recently diagnosed endometriosis, and childhood asthma. She was admitted to the hospital for an elective dilatation and curettage procedure. She was seen postprocedure by pulmonary medicine for acute onset of shortness of breath. She was noted to be in mild respiratory distress with oxygen saturation of 96% on 4 liters of oxygen via nasal cannula but, otherwise, had a normal exam. She improved after receiving nebulized albuterol. Upon further questioning, the patient revealed that she was diagnosed with asthma as a child. She was treated with various inhaled and nebulized medications throughout her childhood. During early adolescence, she required home oxygen for about 1-2 years. She had multiple hospitalizations for presumed asthma exacerbation during her childhood and teenage years. She did not recall having a pulmonary function test or any imaging of the chest. She had never been placed on noninvasive or invasive mechanical ventilation. Over the last 5-6 years, she had no hospitalizations for shortness of breath. She did not use oxygen at home. She had a desk job as a receptionist in a doctor's office so was able to perform her duties without experiencing any respiratory distress. However, she did get short of breath after walking 3 blocks and after climbing 1 flight of stairs. She used an albuterol inhaler which she said brought only mild relief of her symptoms. She had never smoked cigarettes or any other illicit drugs. However, she was exposed to second-hand smoke as her grandmother and several of her friends smoked in her presence.
Her hemoglobin on presentation was 8.9 g/dL, stable as compared to previous levels. She had a normal white blood cell, platelet count, and renal function. A liver function test was normal except for a low albumin level of 3