A 57-year-old Ukranian male with a 45-year history of smoking but no other medical history presented in August 2008 complaining of months of intermittent abdominal pain, diarrhea, and a 40 lb weight loss. His symptoms presented over the course of 1 year. His diarrhea was initially evaluated and attributed to gastroenteritis. Routine studies were sent, including a stool culture. S. arizonae (subtype III), which is associated with osteomyelitis and gastroenteritis in reptile handlers, was isolated and the patient reported contact with a pet iguana. Computed tomography of the abdomen and pelvis was ordered and revealed a 1.5 × 1.7 cm speculated pulmonary nodule in the right upper lobe and thickening of the duodenal, jejunal, and colonic wall with scattered surrounding lymphadenopathy.
The patient was placed on antibiotics and continued to suffer from continued diarrhea and weight loss, so inflammatory bowel disease was suspected. In September 2008 he underwent endoscopic studies which revealed a hiatal hernia, old blood in the stomach, mucosal swelling near the gastric antrum, and three areas of circumferential ulceration and inflammation with mucosal pigmentation/erythema (see ). The areas were biopsied, and the biopsy showed reported duodenitis and jejunitis with acute on chronic inflammation. There were no signs of architectural distortion or cryptitis/crypt abscesses, Helicobacter pylori stains were negative, and no bacteria were apparent on biopsy. Given that the biopsies did not show any findings consistent with the suspected diagnosis of inflammatory bowel disease, his symptoms were attributed to S. arizonae gastroenteritis.
Fine needle aspiration of his pulmonary nodule was nondiagnostic, showing only clustered atypical epithelial cells. A positron emission tomography scan was obtained and showed a focus of hypermetabolic activity in the right upper lobe which was read as probable granulomatous disease.
He continued to have recurrent episodes of abdominal pain and vomiting in November 2008, and treatment of the presumptive S. arizonae gastritis/enteritis with trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole and