We report the case of a 25-year-old African-American male with OCA2, who was admitted in response to a phone call his mother made to emergency services after making threats to kill himself. The patient was admitted with symptoms of auditory hallucinations, paranoid delusions of people stalking him and stealing his thoughts, self-neglect, depression, and suicidal thoughts, which, according to his mother had increased when he became medication noncompliant. He had been hospitalized and discharged one month prior at a different facility, when he had shot himself in the forehead with a BB gun in response to command auditory hallucinations. His mother called 911 when she discovered two BBs lodged in his forehead. He had been released after a two-week stay, but continued to experience command auditory hallucinations to kill himself. His mother again called 911 when he expressed his urges to attempt suicide again. Physical examination revealed the presence of one BB in his forehead, as well as nystagmus and hypopigmentation over his entire body. Social history revealed no smoking or alcohol usage, but a urine test was positive for cannabis. An inquiry into family history was made, and it was noted that the patient has a paternal female cousin with albinism (with no current signs of schizophrenia) and maternal grandmother with schizophrenia. As for his immediate family, there were no other cases of either schizophrenia or albinism among his biological parents or three siblings. According to his mother, he had previously lived a rather normal life (although more on the withdrawn side) and schizophrenic symptoms had only developed a few years prior, when he was around 22 years old.
The patient was started on risperidone, which was uptitrated to 6 mg daily, and escitalopram at 10 mg daily for ongoing depressed mood. This medication combination lessened the intensity of auditory hallucinations significantly, but he remained very depressed and isolative on the inpatient psychiatric ward,