A 67-year-old male, having a history of diabetes mellitus and classified as a heavy smoker (50 pack-years), presented with left thigh pain that had been aggravated in sitting or squatting positions for the previous four months. The patient felt tenderness on the mass-like lesion on the left thigh, which was large and pulsatile. A computerized tomography angiography image revealed a giant aneurysm of the left popliteal artery and mild atherosclerotic aneurysmal change of the right popliteal artery (). There were mild atherosclerotic calcifications in the lower abdominal aorta and iliofemoral arteries without significant aneurysmal changes.
Surgery was performed separately from upper and lower medial approaches to allow for a direct view of the aneurysm under spinal anesthesia. The patient was placed supine with the knee flexed over a sandbag. The line of the incision ran from four fingerbreadths above the adductor, opening downwards and backwards to a little behind the medial femoral condyle and avoiding the greater saphenous vein. The deep fascia was incised, and the anterior border of the sartorius muscle was identified. The muscle was displaced backwards to reveal the thicker aponeurosis of the adductor canal running into the tendon of the adductor opening. A lower medial approach was made along the posterior tibial border from the lower aspect of the medial condyle, avoiding the greater saphenous vein. The deep fascia was incised and the medial head of the gastrocnemius muscle was displaced backwards. The loose popliteal fat was dissected free from the vascular bundle to reveal the vein with the popliteal artery. Since the aneurysm was too large and long (6×6 cm) to dissect between the adductor opening and the sartorius muscle, we could not clamp the distal and proximal end of the aneurysm (). We performed a bypass from the common femoral artery (end-to-side) to the distal popliteal artery (end-to-side) below the knee, using the autologous greater saphenous vein (). An exclusion of the aneurysm by double