A 50-year-old male visited our hospital in October 1996 because of abnormalities detected in a medical checkup. Urinary protein and occult hematuria had been documented in medical checkups over the previous few years, with marked proteinuria of up to 3.8 g/day being a prominent feature of his clinical presentation. Renal biopsy performed in December 1996 revealed segmental sclerosis in 1 of 7 glomeruli and deposition of immunoreactive substances into glomeruli, including IgM and complement. Therefore, a diagnosis of FSGS was made on the basis of the results of a renal biopsy. Also, chest computed tomography (CT) delineated interstitial changes accompanied by cystic lesions in the lung and pleural thickening (fig. ), along with chest X-ray abnormalities that had been noted in a past medical checkup. He had worked as a demolition worker and smoked approximately 30 cigarettes a day since he was 18 years old. Work- and smoking-related lung conditions were therefore the most likely causes of the pulmonary lesions. An annual chest CT showed little change over several years, in contrast to progression of the renal disorder. Pleural thickening strongly suggested concomitant TB based on epidemiological reports showing a strong association of TB with pneumoconiosis [], although mycobacterium species were not detected by sputum culture tests that were repeatedly performed over a couple of years.
Cyclosporine A (CsA) was administered at doses of 50–100 mg per day under therapeutic drug monitoring (the trough level was usually around 50 ng/ml) in lieu of steroid therapy [] to reduce the risk of excessive immunosuppression, but the serum creatinine (Cr) level showed a rapid elevation in 2000, at approximately 3 years after biopsy (fig. ). He had presented with persistent microscopic hematuria, which is inconsistent with the clinical presentation of FSGS, since the first visit. By contrast, a temporary decrease in proteinuria (down to 1.3 g/day) was observed afterward, unlike with treatment-resistant FSGS. Rapidly progressive glomerulonephritis was suspected despite the biopsy findings