A 29-year-old man presented at a emergency room in a stupor.
The patient had started psychiatric treatment after being diagnosed with personality disorder and hypochondriasis by the department of psychiatry in our hospital 4 years ago. After about 1 year of treatment, olanzapine was administered due to the patient's symptoms of social withdrawal and distrust of people. After the initiation of olanzapine, the patient's body weight increased by ≥30 kg, and hyperthermia occurred together with nausea and vomiting 1 week prior to the visit to our hospital. The patient received a prescription from a neighboring hospital and had taken antipyretics, but did not show any improvement. Then the patient showed mental deterioration and was admitted to our hospital via the emergency room.
Both parents were moderately built, and none of the family members, including siblings, had a metabolic disease such as diabetes.
The patient was on medication due to incidences of personality disorder, hypochondriasis, and psychotic tendency, taking olanzapine 10 mg, valproic acid 500 mg, clonazepam 0.5 mg, and lorazepam 1 mg on a daily basis. The aforementioned medication regimen was maintained for over 1 year without any dosage change, and the intake period of olanzapine was 32 months. There was no other underlying disease than the aforementioned, and there were no abnormal test results based on blood assay, including an assay for fasting plasma glucose, which was performed prior to administration of antipsychotics.
The patient had no history of smoking or alcohol drinking and was unemployed since completion of military service as social service personnel.
In physical examination, the patient showed acute signs of illness and was in a coma. His vital signs measured at the time of visit to our hospital were 110/70 mm Hg for blood pressure (BP), 120 beats per minute for pulse rate, 24 times per minute for respiratory rate, and 37.2℃ for body temperature. The patient's height was 181 cm, weight was 104 kg and body mass index (BMI