A 62-year-old male patient visited our hospital with dyspnea and mild dysphagia that began approximately 4 months prior to the visit as the main symptoms. Gentle exercise, such as steps, caused difficulty of inspiration 1 month ago, but it had become worse around the time of his visit, he appeared at rest and accompanied by dysphonia. Dysphagia emerged as foreign body sensation and intermittent aspiration during a solid meal, but he did not have history of weight loss or aspiration pneumonia. Various physicians, from a pulmonologist to an otorhinolaryngologist, failed to make an accurate diagnosis and the symptoms of the patient continued to progressively deteriorate.
The patient did not have any particular past internal or surgical medical history other than being a smoker for the last 20 years. The patient had clear consciousness without cognitive dysfunction at the time of his visit to our hospital. In physical examination, stridor was auscultated during inhalation. There was no abnormality of the tongue and no atrophy of the body muscles. The sensory tests displayed normal findings, and normal muscular strength was observed in all muscles of the upper and lower limbs on both sides in the manual muscular strength tests along with normal findings in the deep tendon reflex tests. Fibrillation was not observed in neurological examinations, and masticatory function and gag reflex were normal without observation of particular findings, such as dysarthria in linguistic assessments. Brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) for intracranial pathology did not show any abnormalities. There were no abnormal findings in the electrodiagnostic studies that were screened for neuromuscular diseases such as progressive bulbar paralysis. In addition, all the enzymes related to muscular diseases, such as creatine kinase, lactate dehydrogenase, and so on, were in the normal range of the laboratory test. Pulmonary function test was performed to find the cause of dyspnea, but normal pulmonary function was observed without abnormal findings, such as obstructive or restrictive pulmonary patterns. A VFSS showed that osteophytes were severely protruding at the anterior portion