A 24-year-old man was referred to our gastroenterology department for the specialized management of persistent symptoms such as intermittent epigastric and lower abdominal pain that had begun approximately 7 months earlier. The pain had developed gradually and tended to aggravate after meals.
One month prior to his referral to our department, the patient had visited a primary outpatient clinic several times and was administered medication to control symptoms, but his symptoms did not improve. The patient was later admitted to a primary hospital for 1 week, where gastroduodenoscopy, colonoscopy, abdominal sonography, and laboratory testing was performed to identify the cause of the symptoms. On the basis of these examinations, he was diagnosed with IBS and administered medication. However, because of poor symptom control, the patient was referred to our hospital for specialized management of IBS. The patient had no medical history, including drug history, and had lost approximately 5 kg over the previous 7 months. The patient had a history of 5 pack-years of smoking and social alcohol consumption. The patient's father was diagnosed with pulmonary tuberculosis 1 month earlier and was receiving medication. The patient was employed as a cell phone salesman, but helped with work on his father's farm every weekend. His associated symptoms were frequent nausea with vomiting and diarrhea-like loose stools.
Physical examination findings were nonspecific and he showed chronic rather than acute illness. He had no tenderness or rebound tenderness on his abdomen. Laboratory test results of peripheral blood, blood biochemistry, and serum electrolytes were all within the normal ranges. Urine analysis and stool occult blood test showed no abnormal findings. Because of his weight loss, we tested his glucose and thyroid-associated hormone levels. His fasting blood glucose level was 87 mg/dL and the results of the thyroid function test were normal. We reviewed the imaging studies performed at the primary hospital. Gastroduodenoscopy showed chronic atrophic gastritis with erosion, and colonoscopy showed nonspecific terminal ileitis. Abdominal ultrasonography findings were nonspecific. After referral to our hospital, we changed his