A 27 year old nulliparous woman presented in November 2008 with a 2 month history of intermenstrual/postcoital bleeding. All previous smears were negative and she is a non-smoker. Clinically on examination there was a 2 × 2.5 cm exophytic lesion on the anterior lip of the cervix. Biopsy taken was inconclusive but suggestive of severe cervical glandular intraepithelial neoplasia (CGIN). The patient was subsequently seen in colposcopy clinic in December 2008 and a superficial LLETZ (12 × 10 × 8 mm) was performed which revealed a moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma of the cervix (10 mm horizontal width × 5 mm depth), incompletely excised, with lymphovascular space invasion (LVSI). The patient was then referred to a cancer centre with the expertise to perform fertility-sparing surgery.
At the cancer centre review the pathology and MRI of the pelvis were suggestive of stage 1b1 cervical cancer with a suspicious right obturator node. An endovaginal MRI pelvis was performed in order to obtain the following two measurements to determine that the correct cervical length was excised: the endocervical canal measured 2 cm and the length from the internal os to the top of the uterine cavity 4.2 cm. At the time of referral the patient was not pregnant and detailed counselling of the patient and her partner not only included the standard treatment but also fertility-sparing surgery. They were warned about the risks of prematurity but also the need for completion treatment by chemoradiation.
In January 2009 the patient underwent a laparoscopic pelvic lymphadenectomy and all 39 nodes were negative. At that time the pregnancy test was negative. In February 2009 a radical vaginal trachelectomy was scheduled but on the morning of her operation the pregnancy test was positive despite having used condoms for contraception. The first day of her last period was 28/12/08.
The case was re-discussed at the weekly multidisciplinary meeting and the following options were discussed:Termination of pregnancy would delay the subsequent procedure of radical vaginal trachelectomy for there would