A 54-year-old man presented with 4-month history of otorrhea and a rapidly growing mass on the external auditory canal and postauricular area after open cavity mastoidectomy at other hospital 5 months ago. He was otherwise healthy, with no significant medical history. He had received no previous radiotherapy. Physical examination revealed polypoid mass totally packed in external auditory canal and exophytic mass about 5×4 cm in postauricular area ().
No cervical lymph nodes were palpitated. No facial paralysis was present. The scalp and the remainder of the findings on otolaryngologic examination were within normal limits. Audiometry demonstrated a mixed hearing loss of 50 dB of bone conduction and 90 dB of air conduction hearing. Routine clinical laboratory data and a chest radiograph were normal. Two biopsies were performed. Histologic evaluation identified the lesion as a leiomyosarcoma with extensive necrosis.
Computed tomography (CT) of the temporal bone demonstrated a mass in the middle ear cavity, with absence of almost the entire temporal bone due to previous operation and with destruction of a part of petrous bone. The inner ear structures were preserved ().
Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) indicated a mass expending to pterygoid muscles, posterior margin of mandible and middle and posterior cranial fossa dura. The lesion obstructed the external auditory canal and could not be demarcated with granulation tissue ().
For the en bloc excision of the mass, the clear margin was 1.5 cm or more. The auricle was sacrificed for the design of surgical incision with the discolorated skin.
The excisions of the temporal bone was conducted including the external auditory canal, the middle ear, the vestibular organ, middle and posterior fossa dura, and the partial petrous bone. The cochlear, the lateral sinus, and the jugular bulb remain intact (). For the preservation of facial nerve function, the delicate epineural dissection of facial nerve was performed from tympanic segment to stylomastoid foramen and the fasc