A 46-year-old male patient reported to the Department of Periodontology, Faculty of Dental Sciences, Sri Ramachandra University, Chennai, India with an intraoral swelling in relation to the lower left first and second premolars for the past 8 months associated with a dull pain. The swelling was initially small and gradually increased in size. He was a known asthmatic, but not under any systemic medication. He gave a history of smoking cigarettes (2 packets/day) for the past 30 years and keeping the tobacco quid on the left side of the vestibular area, but had stopped the habit because of burning sensation. On clinical examination, a single sessile erythematous swelling with a fungating whitish mass in the center was seen []. On palpation, it was firm in consistency measuring about 1.5 cm (apicocoronally) and 2.0 cm (mesiodistally) extending from the mesial aspect of tooth 34 to the mesial aspect of tooth 36. Both the premolars exhibited grade 1 mobility with tenderness on vertical percussion and no attachment loss. A single submandibular lymph node was palpable on the left side.
Patient was counseled regarding the cessation of the smoking habit. Scaling was performed on the first visit and selective grinding of the opposing cusp in occlusion was carried out. At the recall visit, the surface necrosis had disappeared (which could have probably been due to withdrawal of tobacco quid usage).
Complete hemogram, intraoral periapical radiograph and orthopantomograph were taken. Except for an increase in the eosinophil count, all the other blood parameters were within normal range. No significant alterations were evident in the radiographs []. Based on the clinical findings, a provisional diagnosis of SCC was given.
An incisional biopsy of the growth was performed under local anesthesia. The tissue specimen was immediately transferred into 10% buffered formalin solution, sent for routine histopathological examination and were further subjected to immunohistochemical (IHC) analysis.
Hist