A 45 y/o man with a history of asthma and migraines presented to the neurology clinic in 2000 complaining of a 10-year history of progressive muscle cramps that initially affected his jaws and forearms but subsequently involved his neck and all of four limbs. He also reported a 10-year history of tremors in his upper extremities that also worsened in severity over time. Family history was positive for tremors in his maternal aunt and 2 of his 3 brothers, and cramps in his third brother. Examination at the time of presentation was remarkable for obvious gynecomastia, mild periorbital facial weakness, possible wasting of the sternocleidomastoid muscles, fasciculations in multiple muscles of the face and arms, and a 10 Hz postural tremor in the arms. Of note, mental status, reflexes, strength, sensation and gait were all normal. Curiously, electrodiagnostic testing showed evidence of a generalized sensory neuropathy with absent left sural, median, ulnar and dorsal ulnar cutaneous nerve sensory responses and a slightly reduced superficial radial nerve sensory amplitude and conduction velocity. Electromyo graphy showed evidence of acute denervation in the left lateral gastrocnemius and extensor digitorum brevis and evidence of chronic denervation in multiple muscles of the left upper and lower extremities. DNA testing for Kennedy’s disease confirmed the diagnosis revealing an expansion of 47 CAG repeats (normal being <33). The patient declined treatment for his tremor.
The patient continued to be seen in clinic on an annual basis, with slowly progressive disease with increasing difficulty climbing stairs and squatting. He was still able to continue working full time, however. At age 54 the patient reported new hoarseness and mild dysphagia which slowly worsened over the next year. He denied any heartburn or regurgitation. Videofluoroscopic evaluation of his swallowing revealed mild oropharyngeal dysphagia as well as evidence of esophageal reflux, but no laryngeal penetration or frank tracheal aspiration. Follow up