A 51-year-old Korean woman was referred to our pulmonary medicine outpatient clinic for the evaluation of her known multiple lung nodules: the nodules were first detected 4 months before the referral (). However, the sizes of the nodules were very small at the time of discovery, reaching 0.7 cm diameter for the largest one on chest CT. The doctor, who was treating her for osteoporosis, maintained close observation and this included short term CT follow-up. The follow-up chest CT was done 4 months later just before the referral; it showed that the sizes of the masses were increased and multiple masses had been developed (). She complained of mild, non-productive cough and general weakness of several weeks duration, but any other respiratory symptoms like hemoptysis, purulent sputum or exertional dyspnea were absent. She denied any fever, chill, weight loss, headache, myalgia or any other major symptoms. Her past medical history was remarkable in that she was previously diagnosed with uterine leiomyoma and underwent hysterectomy with right-sided oophorectomy approximately 16 years ago. She also underwent surgery due to acute appendicitis 27 years ago. She did not smoke and she rarely drank alcohol. She was previously diagnosed with osteoporosis a few years ago and was taking medication for it.
The physical examination revealed that she was afebrile and appeared comfortable. There was no pallor, jaundice, cyanosis, or cold sweating. Her respiratory rate was 20 per minutes, the pulse rate was 90 per minute, the blood pressure was 140/90 mmHg and her body weight was 52 kg. Examination of the head, ears, eyes and throat was unremarkable. No lymphadenopathy or thyroid gland enlargement was noted. There was no neck vein distention. Auscultation of the lung revealed no definite crackle or wheeze. Examination of the heart revealed normal sounds without any gallops or murmurs. Examination of the abdomen and extremities was unremarkable without any palpable masses, hepatosplenomegaly or ascites