The patient was a 33-year-old Caucasian man without any specific personal or familial history. He was an active smoker without alcoholic intoxication. In 2009, he presented a lesion of the lower lip. He underwent resection of this lesion, and the first pathological analysis revealed a salivary ductal ecstasy.
One year later, he developed a peripheral facial paralysis associated with left trigeminal neuralgia. MRI showed perineural invasion of the trigeminal nerve within the temporal fossa (fig. ). Surgical biopsies performed in July 2010 identified secondary lesions from a well-differentiated SCC localized around the V and VII nerve sheaths. According to this diagnosis, a new pathological analysis of the previous resection of the lip was performed in a cancer reference center and diagnosis of SCC of the lip was made. The patient started radio-chemotherapy in September 2010. He received 70 Gy in 35 fractions, and five courses of an association of 5-fluorouracil and cisplatinum. First radiological assessments, 4 months after the end of radio-chemotherapy showed no residual disease.
However, in November 2011, the patient presented with new neurological symptoms: paraparesis and back pain. MRI showed medullary myelitis without meningeal enhancement. Lumbar puncture revealed inflammatory cells without atypical cells within the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). Cerebral MRI and positron emission tomography scan were normal with no evidence of visceral metastasis. Multiple sclerosis was suspected and the patient received several corticosteroid flashes who led to partial improvement of symptoms. Nevertheless, other explorations were negative, and it was not possible to certify the diagnosis of multiple sclerosis. In early 2012, the patient relapsed and developed paraparesis once again. Sequential lumbar punctures found no abnormal cells. He was given a symptomatic treatment combining corticosteroid and plasma depletion. In March 2012, CSF analysis showed intrathecal immunoglobulin syntheses with oligoclonal immunoglobulin bands. Medullary MRI revealed intramedullary hyperintensity without enhancement after gadolinium injection. The diagnosis of dysimmune myelitis was made and the patient received an immunosuppressive drug (mycophenolate mofetil). It is