A 66-year-old female presented to the Oral and Maxillofacial Department with orofacial symptoms of numbness to the right chin and lower right lip, as well as tongue weakness. She previously presented to her general dental practitioner approximately 2 weeks prior with similar paraesthesia, and underwent extraction of her lower right premolar tooth with no improvement of her symptoms.
Alongside her oral symptoms, she also experienced recurrent chest infections and progressive back pain, which was assessed and investigated by the medical physicians to no avail. The medical history was non-contributory, with only a previous cholecystectomy. This lady had never smoked, had low alcohol intake and gave a family history of her brother being affected by pulmonary cancer.
On clinical examination, there was no cervical lymphadenopathy, and no extraoral swelling. There was right chin and lip paraesthesia as well as left hypoglossal nerve palsy with deviation of the tongue to the left on protrusion. Lingual nerve and intra-oral examination was unremarkable. On review of her dental pantomogram (DPT), the right mental region was suspicious of multiple, small, lytic lesions (A, B). An urgent computed tomography (CT) scan of the mandible was requested which showed an area of concern in the right mental region of the mandible. The radiologist suggested a magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scan which demonstrated abnormal signal changes within the bone marrow suggesting metastatic disease or osteomyelitis. In light of her deteriorating general health and these specific signs, further full body imaging was requested to identify any malignant primary lesions.
Whole-body CT imaging showed abnormal lucency of the occiput anterior to the foramen magnum and extending to the left hypoglossal canal (). Abnormal bone marrow texture in the upper cervical spine, occiput and mandible were suggestive of a mitotic process. CT also revealed several left hilar nodes, and moderate left pleural effusion with associated collapse of the left lower lobe. A 25 mm mass in the left lower