A 52-year-old male with a past history of hypertension and bony fusion of the thoracolumbar spine (from 11th thoracic to 2nd lumbar vertebrae) due to tuberculous spondylitis, was presented to the department of orthopedic surgery. He was a heavy smoker and complained of right foot pain, claudication in his right calf, impaired gait functions, and muscle wasting on the right lower limb, which had begun 7 months prior to the visit.
Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the thoracolumbar spine showed severe kyphotic curvature in the thoracolumbar spine, and central canal stenosis on the 10th and 11th thoracic vertebra level with a relatively well preserved lumbar spinal canal ().
The first impression of his attending surgeon was that he had spinal stenosis, related to severe thoracolumbar kyphosis. However, his symptoms were not well correlated to the MRI findings; and his condition did not improve, despite undergoing two weeks of medication. Subsequently, he took an electrophysiologic study at the department of neurology. The nerve conduction study revealed reduced amplitude of the right tibial and peroneal compound motor action potential, and the sural sensory nerve conduction study result was within the normal range (). Needle electromyography showed abnormal spontaneous activities in the right tibialis anterior, peroneus longus, short head of the biceps femoris, gastrocnemius, extensor digitorum brevis, and the abductor hallucis. On volition, the giant motor unit action potential was noted in the tibialis anterior (). These electrophysiologic findings were suggestive of partial right sciatic neuropathy. They concluded that the patient's foot pain and claudication were caused by sciatic neuropathy, combined with lumbar spinal stenosis, and maintained medication for neuropathic pain.
Two months later, he visited the department of rehabilitation medicine for an impairment rating and disability determination, and was still complaining of right foot pain and right leg claudication. We focused on the previously diagnosed non-traumatic right sciatic neuropathy noting his medical history; and performed an extended examination to reveal an undiscovered cause of neuropathy, or other possible causes