A 68-year-old male presented a two-week history of malaise, left-sided abdominal pain and intermittent fever. The only apparent incident of significance prior to presentation was a colonoscopy performed two weeks ago for investigation into his recent change in bowel habit. The colonoscopy was performed with adequate bowel preparation and revealed a 10 mm pedunculated rectal polyp. Apart from a rectal polypectomy with snare diathermy, 3 mm-diameter biopsies were taken randomly from the terminal ileum, ascending colon and descending colon. Hemostatic clips and adrenaline injection were not required as there was no significant bleeding. There was no significant past medical, surgical or dental histories. He does not take any regular medications and has no known allergies. There was no recent travel, sick or animal contacts. He does not smoke and only drinks alcohol socially. He denies any form of illicit drug use.
Histological examination confirmed the rectal polyp as a tubular adenoma. He was well the next day following polypectomy but presented four days later with left upper quadrant pain radiating to the back and minor rectal bleeding. Six days following colonoscopy and polypectomy he developed sepsis, supported by leukocytosis of 18.1 (range 4-11), CRP of 234 (normal range <5) and ESR of 55 mm/h (normal 2-14). He was immediately commenced on amoxycillin/clavulanic acid and treated as colitis by his general practitioner. Due to a lack of clinical improvement despite oral antibiotic, a contrast CT scan of his abdomen and pelvis was performed. There were CT evidence of distal splenic artery aneurysm with complete obliteration distally as well as splenomegaly with most of the spleen occupied by multiple cystic lesions ().
Blood cultures and CT-guided splenic abscess aspiration were collected immediately, followed by administration of intravenous antibiotics (ceftriaxone and metronidazole). Multiple sets of blood cultures and splenic aspirate cultures were positive for Enterococcus faecalis on day one, sensitive to amoxycillin and vancomycin.