A 58-year-old woman presented to the Coburg Clinic in February 2013 with dyspnea, loss of energy, slight edema of the lower extremities, and a 4 kg weight loss in the 4 weeks before presentation. A 3/6 systolic murmur with a left apical maximum point was noted on physical examination. Except for an appendectomy more than 30 years earlier, the patient had never been hospitalized or on any medication. She had never smoked. Family history was unremarkable, except for a sister who had experienced uncomplicated tuberculosis. She had worked as a seamstress until giving birth to a healthy daughter in 1973. From 1976 to 1980 and then again from 1985 to1997 she reported having worked in the ceramics industry, but her job was not associated with significant exposure to ceramic dust. During that time, living in the former German Democratic Republic, she had had annual chest X-rays without any abnormalities. During a second examination, she reported having felt dyspnea on exercise since 2003, but did not complain of loss of energy, and had been able to perform regular work. The electrocardiogram performed on admission showed sinus tachycardia at a rate of 109 beats per minute, incomplete right bundle branch block, and preterminal inverted T-waves in II, III, aVF, and V1–V6.
Body plethysmography showed slight restriction with forced expiratory volume in one second being 68% predicted, inspiratory vital capacity 70% predicted, and a Tiffeneau index of 101%. Her diffusion capacity was reduced at 60%. Her respiratory insufficiency was managed with oxygen substitution therapy (pO2 60 mmHg and pCO2 33 mmHg under oxygen 3 L per minute).
An initial transthoracic echocardiogram on February 1, 2013 demonstrated dilatation of the right ventricle to 38 mm and dilatation of the left atrium to 43 mm. Sclerosis of the aortic valve, minimal aortic insufficiency, first-degree mitral insufficiency, obvious tricuspid valve insufficiency with a diastolic gradient of 67 mmHg, and diastolic dysfunction of the left ventricle