The patient is an 86-year-old white male with a past medical history of hypertension and a 12-year history of a hiatal hernia. He does not have a history of diabetes, hyperlipidemia, or coronary artery disease. He is a non-smoker, active for his age, and has no recent history of chest pain. The patient takes 25 mg of metoprolol twice a day for his hypertension and 40 mg of omeprazole daily for GERD.
The patient presented to the emergency department with a chief complaint of persistent nausea. He received an abdominal film during his work-up which revealed a large hiatal hernia, which along with his persistent nausea, the possibility of gastric volvulous was entertained []. The patient subsequently underwent an abdominal CT scan that ruled out gastric volvulous and demonstrated a large hiatal hernia in which the stomach was almost entirely in the thorax []. An electrocardiogram while patient was in Emergency Department revealed new ST segment elevation in the inferior leads without reciprocal changes []. The patient continued to have persistent nausea and started to develop pleuritic left sided chest pain. His vital signs remained stable with a temperature of 98.4, 16 respirations a minute, heart rate of 70, blood pressure of 156/63, and an oxygen saturation of 98% on room air. He was admitted for 24-h observation. His cardiac markers remained within normal limits. An echocardiogram revealed no wall motion abnormalities and a preserved ejection fraction.
During the hospitalization, the patient had a number of episodes of large volume emesis, resulting in dramatic improvement of his symptoms. Repeat electrocardiogram revealed resolution of the ST segment elevation []. The patient received supportive care during his hospitalization and was referred to cardiothoracic surgery at discharge. Two months later, the patient received a laparoscopic Nissen fundoplication. The procedure and post-operative course were without complications and the patient has been in good health since the surgery.
Arrhythmias such as atrial tachycardia, atrial fibrillation, supraventricular tachycardia,