A 39-year-old woman was transferred to our hospital after being found unconscious at home. She was confused, but was able to give a history of left-sided weakness with decreased use of her left hand and difficulty bearing weight on her left leg that had begun abruptly 3 days prior to presentation.
She had had one prior outside hospital admission 1 year earlier for a left middle cerebral artery stroke that presented with expressive aphasia and right arm and leg weakness. Limited MRI at that time revealed 2 areas of restricted diffusion in the left parietal lobe with increased FLAIR signal and associated cortical/subcortical enhancement. Axial T1-weighted images showed the absence of a flow void in the left internal carotid artery, while the right internal carotid artery appeared patent based on the presence of a normal flow void. Imaging showed no evidence of dissection. The patient underwent stereotactic biopsy of the left parietal lesion to rule out a neoplasm. The results showed nonspecific necrotic changes and no evidence of a neoplasm. She was discharged to inpatient rehabilitation, and over the subsequent months her speech and motor function completely recovered.
Three years prior to her current presentation, the patient had had a miscarriage at 12 weeks’ gestation. Her history was also significant for intravenous methamphetamine use, ending 13 years prior to presentation, and an 18 pack-year smoking history. She had no history of head or neck trauma. She did not have hypertension, diabetes, or hyperlipidemia. She did not use birth control pills and did not have a history of deep venous thrombosis or pulmonary embolism. Her family history was remarkable for systemic lupus erythematosus in her father and a brother who was diagnosed with thrombotic thrombocytopenia purpura.
On examination, her blood pressure was 126/80 mm Hg, and her heart rate was 91 beats/min and regular. There was no cardiac murmur. She was alert and oriented to person, but not place, time, or situation. She was able to follow simple commands, but was slow to respond. Her