A 47-year-old man with a long-term heavy smoking history presented to the emergency room with an one-month history of progressive dyspnea on exertion, productive cough, marked weight loss, profuse diaphoresis at night, neck swelling and dysphagia in early October 2008. A chest film revealed a large soft tissue density in the right upper lobe of the lung and remarkable widening of the upper mediastinum. A subsequent chest computed tomography disclosed a large space-occupying lesion in the right upper lobe of the lung encasing the superior vena cava and the right pulmonary artery (fig. ). Bronchoscopic examination revealed a picture consistent with external compression in the right trachea where the mucosa presented irregularities, narrowing of the orifice of the right upper lobe with suspicious tumor tissue. The pathological report of the tissue biopsy proved it to be small cell carcinoma of the lung. The patient was hospitalized and received radiotherapy to relieve the superior vena cava syndrome, and prophylactic whole brain radiation was undertaken as well. He favorably tolerated six successive courses of chemotherapy with VP-16 and cisplatin later on and had regular follow-ups in the outpatient clinic with a quite satisfactory general performance and relatively good control of the primary lung lesion in the following 4 years.
In November 2011, a follow-up chest computed tomography disclosed a small, ill-defined tumor (1.8 × 1.4 cm) in the left adrenal area (fig. ). This lesion was initially interpreted as a non-functioning adrenal incidentaloma with no remarkable clinical relevance and was left for observation. However, the patient, who was free of symptoms, underwent a new chest computed tomography follow-up 6 months later (May 2012) and surprisingly a remarkable enlargement of the previously suspected left adrenal tumor was noted (3.3 × 2.5 cm) (fig. ). A distant metastasis from the lung cancer to the left adrenal gland was then considered and the patient was hospitalized again for surgical intervention by the urologists. Retroperitoneoscopy was initially performed to localize