A 52-year-old male, chronic alcoholic and smoker presented to the emergency department with acute abdominal pain. The serum amylase level was elevated and a diagnosis of acute pancreatitis was made. The patient was managed conservatively and was satisfactorily discharged after a two week-stay in hospital. The patient developed abdominal pain again after 2 months and presented to the outpatient department at another institute where a diagnosis of acute on chronic pancreatitis was made. The patient was referred and when he presented to us he was ambulatory and complained primarily of vague upper abdominal pain with no signs of peritonitis. He also complained of occasional episodes of vomiting and weight loss. He was carrying a report of an endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) done elsewhere, films of which were not available. The EUS report showed a 3×3 cm pseudocyst in the region of neck of pancreas with possible communication with dilated main pancreatic duct (MPD). The pseudocyst was compressing the distal common bile duct (CBD) causing moderate biliary dilation. At our institution, he was further evaluated with a transabdominal USG and a contrast enhanced CT (CECT) to look for the severity and extent of disease. The USG () showed the portal vein as anechoic but with no color flow within and also showed communication between the cyst and portal vein. The CECT showed the pseudocyst () in the pancreatic neck and completely thrombosed portal vein and its branches () which was misinterpreted as dilated CBD on EUS. There were multiple periportal collaterals and areas of necrosis in segment V and VII of liver which showed subtle peripheral enhancement and were considered as cholangiolar abscesses. There was suggestion of communication of the pseudocyst with the MPD.
MRI was performed to investigate a possible communication of the pseudocyst with the MPD and to further characterize the liver lesions. It showed the pseudocyst at the neck of the pancreas with communication with the dilated MPD. The cyst was seen just above the spleno-portal confluence with