A 19-year-old woman was referred to our clinic for further evaluation of cardiomegaly on chest radiography. She had no chest pain, shortness of breath, or other specific signs and symptoms. Her past medical history and family history were unremarkable. She had not taken any medications and denied use of illicit drugs and tobacco or alcohol abuse. On cardiac examination, a regular heart rhythm was heard without heart murmur. A 12-lead electrocardiogram (ECG) showed normal sinus rhythm, with a heart rate of 62 bpm and right deviation of the heart axis (). The chest radiograph revealed that the heart had bulging contour of the left superior cardiac border and leftward shift (). The echocardiography showed a globe-shaped heart and bulbous ventricle due to suspension of the heart from its basal pedicle (). It also revealed mitral valve prolapse. The estimated left ventricular ejection fraction was 65%. Chest computed tomography (CT) revealed outpouching of the right ventricle (RV), which contacted the left chest wall, and interposition of the lung between the aortic arch and prominent pulmonary trunk (). The patient was diagnosed with congenital absence of the left pericardium.
A 56-year-old man was referred to our clinic for ECG abnormality. He had no chest pain, dyspnea, or other specific signs and symptoms. His past medical history and family history were unremarkable. He neither took medications nor used tobacco or alcohol. On examination, his blood pressure was 126/76 mmHg. A systolic ejection-type murmur was present with regular heart rhythm. A 12-lead ECG showed sinus rhythm with a heart rate of 59 bpm, an incomplete right bundle branch block, and a slight increase in left ventricular voltage (). Chest radiography revealed flattening of the left heart border and a lucent area between the aorta and pulmonary artery due to lung interposition (). The patient underwent an echocardiogram and chest CT because of the abnormal chest radiography, murmur, and ECG. The echocardiography showed a left laterally