The patient discussed herein is a 60-year-old male who presented to the surgical oncology clinic with a one-year history of intermittent abdominal pain. He was previously evaluated by gastroenterology at an outside institution and had undergone a CT scan and an endoscopic ultrasound (EUS). This imaging revealed an approximately 4.5 cm mass between the duodenal bulb and the head of the pancreas with both solid and cystic components. A biopsy was performed during the EUS, but a tissue diagnosis could not be made.
At the time of our initial interview, the patient reported persistence of his abdominal pain as well as 15 pounds of weight loss over the preceding three months. He was otherwise asymptomatic. He admitted to occasional smoking and alcohol use. His family history was negative for GI malignancy. On exam, he was noted to be anicteric and nonjaundiced. Abdominal exam was normal aside from a reducible nontender 3 cm umbilical hernia.
After the patient's office visit, an MRI was performed for better characterization of the previously identified mass. This showed a 4.4 cm predominantly solid mass in the bulb and second portion of the duodenum with extension into the pancreatoduodenal groove as well as fluid in the right pararenal and paraduodenal spaces (Figures and ). A repeat endoscopy with EUS was performed. Endoscopy showed a nodular, edematous, friable mass in the first portion of the duodenum causing mild stricture of the lumen (). EUS revealed a slightly nodular, ill-defined, hypoechoic and heterogeneous submucosal mass in the medial wall of the first portion of the duodenum extending into the duodenal sweep and causing mild stricture. The duodenal wall was thickened with loss of demarcation between layers (). Repeat biopsy and fine needle aspiration (FNA) of the mass taken at the time of EUS revealed only duodenal mucosa with dilated lymphatic channels and prominent lymphoid follicles.
Given the remaining diagnostic uncertainty, the patient was discussed in a multidisciplinary fashion at our GI tumor board