A 62-year-old female patient who is heavy smoker presented with a burning sensation and discomfort in her left breast that has been recurring over a month prior to admission to the hospital. No fever, chills, or any other symptoms were described. She reported a past medical history of hypertension and a surgical history of hemorrhoidectomy, dilation and curettage surgery, colonoscopy, and gastroscopy.
Physical examination revealed a palpable left breast mass (measuring approximately 3 × 3 cm) in the upper quadrant with no overlying skin changes. The right breast exam was normal. No palpable locoregional lymphadenopathy (axilla and supraclavicular lymph nodes) was noticed. Routine blood tests (complete blood count with differential, electrolytes, prothrombin time, partial prothrombin time, and international normalized ratio), chest X-ray, and electrocardiogram (ECG) were all normal.
Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the left breast showed an ill-defined deep retroareolar spiculate lesion extending over 3 × 1.5 cm revealing early enhancement peak with associated architectural distortion. There were no axillary lymph nodes or abnormal bone signal intensity. No cutaneous thickening or retraction was seen. Findings were suggestive of BIRADS type IV lesion ().
An excisional biopsy was performed and revealed breast tissue with extensive lymphocytic infiltrate intermixed with neoplastic epithelial cells (). Immunohistochemistry results were positive for CK AE1/E3 antibody in the neoplastic epithelial cells with no expression of estrogen or progesterone receptors, and HER2/neu was not overexpressed (). The lymphocytes in the background stained positive for both CD3 and CD20 (Figures and ).
The patient underwent a left modified radical mastectomy. Eleven lymph nodes were dissected and free of tumor. The mastectomy specimen showed a 3.5 × 3 × 3 cm cavity at the site of the previous excisional biopsy. On histological examination, apocrine metaplasia was identified but no residual tumor was detected. To note, apocrine metaplasia is a very common incidental benign finding that is considered part