We present a case of a 21-year-old male who presented to the emergency department complaining of neck pain. The pain had started the night before presentation, a few hours after lifting heavy objects. The pain was in the anterior neck and upper chest, stabbing in nature, continuous, increases when moving the head, lying flat, and with deep breathing. The patient had no history of trauma, asthma, odynophagia, or dysphagia. He does not have any comorbidities or previous surgeries. Patient mentioned history of occasional hookah smoking.
On examination the patient was vitally stable. He looked well, sitting comfortably on emergency room bed without shortness of breath, or apparent facial or neck swelling. Oxygen saturation was maintained at 99% on room air. Neck examination showed central trachea, tenderness in anterior neck, and crepitation under the skin. No palpable masses, lymph nodes, or thyroid tissue. Endoscopy was performed to the nasal cavity, nasopharynx, oropharynx, and larynx, which showed no airway narrowing or edema. Chest and cardiovascular examination was unremarkable except for tenderness in the anterior chest wall.
Blood investigations, including complete blood count and renal and liver profiles, showed results within normal limits. Computed tomography (CT) scan of the neck and chest with contrast showed diffuse subcutaneous, soft tissue, and intermuscular head and neck emphysema surrounding the visceral, carotid, retropharyngeal, and posterior cervical spaces reaching down to the anterior mediastinum causing mild pneumomediastinum. There is no pneumothorax, tracheal, laryngeal, or esophageal injury, as shown in ().
The patient was admitted to the ward for observation, monitoring of vital signs, analgesia, and prophylactic antibiotics. The patient was kept under observation for 8 days. During that time, neck pain improved gradually with no episodes of oxygen desaturation or vital signs deterioration. The patient was later discharged with very mild persistent pain. Two weeks after discharge, the patient was seen in outpatient clinic and was