A 62-year-old man, affected dysphagia, was endoscopically diagnosed with lower esophageal cancer confirmed squamous cell carcinoma on biopsy, and was reffered to our hospital (Fig. ). He had no medical history. His lifestyle has included 1500 ml beer consumption per day and 40 cigarettes per day for the past 40 years. Computed tomography (CT) showed thickening of the wall in the lower esophagus as the primary lesion was demonstrated and the tumor formed a mass with the solitary metastatic abdominal lymph node, and invaded pancreas body and gastric body (Fig. ). No other distant metastasis was detected on CT. He was diagnosed with lower esophageal cancer cT4 N1 M0, with pancreatic invasion, cStage IIIC according to 7th edition of the Union for International Cancer Control system []. At first, we considered definitive chemoradiotherapy. However, radiation oncologists evaluated that the tumor was less candidate for chemoradiotherapy because of the risk of gastric mucosal damage. For the purpose of definitive therapy, radical esophagectomy with distal pancreatectomy was planned. As neoadjuvant chemotherapy, CF therapy (cisplatin and 5-fluorouracil therapy; cisplatin was dripped 80 mg/m2 plus 5-fluorouracil was infused 800 mg/m2 on day 1 through 4 continuously) was started according to standard therapy of localized advanced esophageal cancer []. However, after once administration, he could not continue chemotherapy for the exacerbation of dysphagia, and underwent radical surgery. Preoperative evaluation of tumor was similar to initial findings on endoscopy and CT.
In findings on laparotomy, abdominal lymph node was infiltrated directly to pancreas body. As the radical surgery, Ivor Lewis esophagectomy with distal pancreatectomy and splenectomy, followed by reconstruction of gastric conduit. Two fields lymphadenectomy was performed according to the treatment strategy of the abdominal esophageal cancer. Reconstruction of gastric conduit was possible although the lymph node was adherent to lesser side of gastric body, which was resected when reconstruction of gastric conduit. In addition, partial resection of lung was performed simultaneously owing to involvement of bilateral pulmonary ligaments to