Our patient was a 56-year-old postmenopausal African American woman with no past medical history who was previously treated at an outside oncology clinic for breast masses until 2010, when we first saw her. Her family history was negative for breast or ovarian carcinoma. She had a negative smoking history and endorsed drinking one drink per week. Per reports obtained, she first presented in 2006 with left breast lesions located in the upper inner breast that were documented as complicated cystic masses within the 9 o’clock and 9:30 positions on the basis of ultrasound (US). Subsequent US core biopsy in both areas revealed intraductal papilloma (IDP), and the patient was referred for a surgical consultation. No additional documentation of clinical visits was available until 1 year later. That documentation was in the form of a core biopsy pathologic report documenting the patient’s history of IDP at 9:00 and 9:30 positions as well as intraductal papillomatosis of the breast. A core biopsy taken at that time was from the left breast (location not mentioned) as well as the left axilla. The patient’s left breast showed fibrosis of mammary stroma including intralobular stromal sclerosis as well as microcalcifications in the lobular lumens. An axillary core biopsy confirmed IDP of the breast with stromal hyalinization as well as lymph node tissue adjacent to the papilloma. One month later, she underwent lumpectomy, with pathology reporting a 7-mm intracystic papilloma within a lymph node that was completely excised, as well as an epidermal inclusion cyst. The pathologist noted that the tumor was located near the periphery of a lymph node, probably arising in ectopic breast tissue in the capsular region. Approximately 11 months later, she developed another left breast mass. This was excised after a US-guided core biopsy once again revealed a benign IDP. The patient was then lost to follow-up at the outside clinic. She presented to our clinic 2 years later for an evaluation of a new left breast lesion. A bilateral