A 72-year-old woman was referred to our hospital with pancreatic head and neck carcinoma for more evaluations and surgical operation. She had been suffering from abdominal pain for about 1 year, and the pain has become more intense in the last 6 months. The pain was postprandial and localized to the right upper abdomen. She has become icteric with generalized spread plus itching since past 2 months. The patient had no history of alcohol consumption or smoking. The patient was referred to us with a highly probable diagnosis of pancreatic head and neck carcinoma to be consulted for surgery. Also, a plastic stent was implanted for her in the previous health center due to intra- and extrahepatic duct dilation for the relief of patient symptoms and signs. After admission to our hospital, she was evaluated by abdominal computed tomography (CT), endosonographic imaging, and diagnostic ampullary biopsy. The abdominal CT scan with contrast exhibited an 18 mm × 20 mm hypodense mass at the head and neck of the pancreas (). Also, endosonographic imaging was performed to rule out periampullary lesions (). A 20 mm × 19 mm lesion was seen in the pancreatic head and neck region, and the main pancreatic duct was slightly dilated in the body of the pancreas. Moreover, the common bile duct (CBD) was distally thickened and contained sludge. Subsequently, diagnostic biopsy for pathological assessment was done. The biopsy revealed an irregular gray-creamy soft tissue which had undifferentiated malignant tumor features at microscopic evaluations. During the Whipple procedure, after cutting the neck of the pancreas in the left side of the portal vein, the frozen section revealed more involvement of pancreatic tissue. Although additional 2 cm was resected, the pancreas residue still had tumor involvement, macroscopically. Therefore, the patient was undergone total pancreatectomy.
Postoperative pathological studies were established and indicated a tumor with the greatest dimension of 4 cm which was extended to the duodenum. Invasion of the venous, lymphatic vessels and perineural sites was seen; however, no