A 23-year-old French man of African origin, an elite football player, sustained a midshaft anterior cortex tibial stress fracture 2.5 years ago. Initially, he was treated with cast immobilization, no weight bearing for 3 months, ultrasound stimulation, and electromagnetic field therapy. The fracture did not heal; he had pain during gait, so he continued no weight bearing for 3 additional months. After that period, the fracture site still was not healed, so he underwent an operation performed by his team doctor. In this operation, the medullary canal of his tibia was reamed and an im nail was inserted.
Unfortunately, the fracture site did not consolidate again, even 18-months postoperatively, so he presented to our clinic for counseling. It was obvious from the X-ray (Fig. ) that a nonunion of the fracture had occurred.
He did not smoke tobacco and he had a free medical history. When he presented to our clinic, the area at the fracture site was swollen and painful when palpated. The pain got worse when he attempted to walk with full weight bearing, so he had to use crutches. An examination of the peripheral nervous system of his lower extremities did not provide us with any pathologic findings. In addition, the laboratory examinations for possible endocrine or metabolic disorders were negative (Table ), so he was advised to have a reoperation to address this nonunion. The treatment options for such cases include nail exchange, drilling of the fracture site, bone grafting, or removal of the nail and internal fixation with a plate. We performed a tension band plate fixation, which is a technique already described for the treatment of anterior tibial stress fractures that failed non-operative treatment [], with bone grafting and without removing the nail.
A longitudinal incision was made just lateral to the anterior tibial crest centered over the fracture site. The fascia over the tibialis anterior was divided, the muscle lifted off and the fracture site was visualized. The necrotic bone and