A 51 years old man with a 5 years history of mild ED and Peyronie disease presented to our attention. He reported poor response to PDE5i and a stable plaque along the lateral aspect of the penis for the previous 12 months. He did not present significant comorbidities but reported a significant alcohol consumption and smoked 20 cigarettes per day. He underwent circumcision in childhood. A penile Doppler US showed arterial deficiency (peak systolic velocity = 20 cm/s) and a 25 × 17 mm calcified plaque of the mid-shaft causing significant penile shortening and a slight lateral deviation of about 45o. The patient was counseled regarding the possibility of a combined procedure to improve his erection and restore penile length and deviation. The “sliding technique” offered to the patient previously described by Rolle et al[ consisted of a penile prosthesis implantation together with a penile elongation thanks to a double dorsal-ventral patch graft. The aim of this surgical choice was both to restore the length lost due to PD and to guarantee the rigidity necessary to engage in penetrative sexual intercourse. The patient was fully aware about the complexity and the potential risk associated with the procedure, which is quite complex when compared to prosthesis implantation alone. Considering the severe level of distress caused by his double condition, the patient choice was to have the surgery recommended.
The surgical technique was conducted using a combined penoscrotal and subcoronal incision followed by a complete degloving of the penile shaft. Buck's fascia was incised and the neurovascular bundle (NVB) completely mobilized from the tunica albuginea down to the origin of the suspensory ligament to maximize lengthening. In case of sliding technique, the length of the NVB represents the limiting factor in the lengthening process because it cannot be stretched excessively to avoid blood supply compromising. The urethra was then dissected off the corpora cavernosa and the penis partially disassembled (Fig. A). Two longitudinal incisions of the tun