A previously healthy 42 years old male presented to our institute with history of gradually progressive and painless swelling over left calf since two months. He was a non-smoker, laborer by occupation. The patient noticed a firm swelling in calf region of left leg 5 years ago. No history of trauma or infection prior to the appearance of the mass was reported. No family history of any such swelling in the past. Patient was operated for swelling over calf region 20 years back but no records were available. There was a history of gradual increase in deformity of left foot since 3 years and the patient had started walking on toes on left side with no dorsiflexion at ankle joint.
On examination, there was a single, non-tender, hyperpigmented scar of size 8×3 cm over mid-calf region fixed to underlying structures. A large, well defined non-tender, firm, swelling was palpable in posterior aspect of left leg measuring about 28×8 cm extending from tendoachilles region up to 5 cm distal to popliteal fossa and medially and laterally up to border of tibia and fibula respectively. The overlying skin was normal with no discoloration and local raise of temperature. Movement of knee joint was normal. There was fixed equinus deformity of left foot (). No inflammatory signs, skin changes or adenopathies were present. No bruits were heard on auscultation. Neurovascular examination of left leg and foot was normal. Laboratory findings were within normal limits. Radiological examination revealed large soft tissue mass with linear and streak-like ossification around the left tibia. MR Angiography () showed arteriovenous malformation in left calf with multiple feeding arteries arising from popliteal, peroneal and anterior tibial artery and large draining veins draining deep into venous system of leg. The tibia and fibula marrow showed normal signal intensity.
Because of patient symptoms and with clinical diagnosis of a vascular malformation, a wide surgical excision of the lesion was done. Through a 25 cm