A previously healthy 24-year-old male presented to the emergency department with a head injury after falling 15 feet, and he was admitted with a diagnosis of a TBI to his right lateral frontal lobe. He was monitored for four days in the neurology intensive care unit and then discharged after improvement in symptoms. Three weeks from the initial injury the patient was brought into the emergency department by his family with symptoms like insomnia, atypical aggression, psychosis, and impulsive behavior. Upon arrival in the emergency department, the patient admitted to new onset suicidal and homicidal ideations with a plan to shoot himself and the (illusory) “friend who murdered his family and robbed his home” with a loaded gun in his possession. He admitted that two days prior to re-admission, he had become frustrated upon return to work, had not slept for 26 hours, and began damaging items around his house. He admitted to increased aggression, hallucinations, and paranoid ideations.
The patient, accompanied by his mother, denied any previous family or personal psychiatric history. His mother stated his personality had become increasingly impulsive and aggressive since his previous discharge from the hospital. The patient complained of worsening auditory and visual hallucinations, insomnia, headache, and visual floaters. The patient denied nausea, emesis, weakness, gait difficulty, and focal motor defects.
The patient had an unremarkable past medical history. Hypertension was diagnosed during his initial admission and he was started on lisinopril for management. Social history included intermittent alcohol and occasional marijuana use. He denied any tobacco or other illicit drug use. He lived with his parents, was in a monogamous relationship with his girlfriend, and worked in the construction field.
Upon this admission three weeks postinjury, the patient presented with a blood pressure of 152/92 mmHg and a heart rate of 105 beats/minute. He was alert, oriented, anxious, and agitated. His