A 45-year-old man presented to our department with rapidly progressive swelling of the anterior neck. He had been a 40-pack-year smoker. Contrast-enhanced computed tomography (CT) showed a 4.5 cm tumor that was enhanced slightly in the left lobe of the thyroid (). At first, fine-needle aspiration cytology of the thyroid tumor suggested anaplastic carcinoma. Thereafter, we performed a left lobectomy of the thyroid to prevent fatal airway obstruction from the rapid tumor growth and to make a histological diagnosis. However, pathological examination of the thyroid tumor revealed two distinct neoplasia types (): half of the tumor showed solid growth of small cells with round-to-oval nuclei and scant cytoplasm (), and the other half was composed of nests and rosettes of polygonal cells with enlarged round-to-oval and prominent nuclei (). The specimen stained positively for synaptophysin, CD 56, and chromogranin A via immunohistochemistry (). These findings were consistent with NEC composed of small-cell and large-cell carcinoma [], which is generally an indicator of metastasis from another organ. A whole-body CT performed to identify a primary NEC revealed a 7 cm tumor in the liver and a 3 cm tumor in the transverse colon (); however, no tumors were detected in the lung. Ultrasound-guided needle biopsy revealed that the liver tumor was histopathologically the same type as that of the thyroid tumor, while the transverse colon tumor was found to be an adenocarcinoma based on colonoscopic biopsy. We performed colon cancer resection to prevent intestinal obstruction as palliative care. Surprisingly, two distinct areas of histological features were found in the colon specimen: well-differentiated adenocarcinoma and NEC similar to that in the thyroid and the liver (). In addition, immunohistochemistry of the entire specimen revealed that synaptophysin and CD5 were positive in the NEC component and partially positive in the adenocarcinoma component. These findings suggested that the colon tumor was MiNEN with the adenocarcinoma and NEC components derived from the same cell