A 79-year-old male with a medical history of cholelithiasis, for which he underwent cholecystectomy 11 years ago, hyperlipidemia, essential hypertension, and paroxysmal atrial fibrillation was admitted for mild acute pancreatitis. His presentation included severe epigastric pain radiating to the back, lipase of 1840 u/L, and no organ failure. He denied fever, chills, or body aches. The patient denied alcohol consumption and reported to have quit smoking 41 years ago. Liver chemistries, serum bilirubin, serum triglycerides, and immunoglobulin subclasses were within normal limits (). Abdominal CT scan demonstrated peripancreatic haziness consistent with noncomplicated acute pancreatitis (). Home medications included atorvastatin for several years and the addition of 160 mg fenofibrate six months prior to admission. These medications were held upon admission but resumed at discharge. Full medication lists on admission and at discharge are shown in (). The patient was managed with fluid resuscitation and pain control. The patient recovered well and was able to tolerate regular diet without any pain or nausea. The patient was discharged in a stable condition after three hospital admission days, and lipase level at the day of discharge was 307 u/l.
Three days later, the patient returned with similar symptoms. Lipase levels were >30,000 u/l (), and magnetic resonance cholangiopancreatography showed acute interstitial edematous pancreatitis (). The patient was treated conservatively with intravenous fluid resuscitation, pain control, and nothing per mouth until his symptoms resolved. Four days after his second admission, the patient recovered well and was discharged home in a stable condition. Fenofibrate and atorvastatin were discontinued ().
Two months later, the patient remained asymptomatic and returned for further workup to rule out an alternative cause to fenofibrate-induced pancreatitis. Endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) was done, which showed a 12 mm x 20 mm pancreatic head mass without pancreatic duct stenosis, strictures, or dilation. There were no common bile duct abnormalities. Fine needle aspiration was performed, and