A 36 year-old female patient was under the care of our mental health team with a diagnosis of mixed anxiety and depressive disorder, with emotionally unstable personality disorder traits (emotional dysregulation and sensitivity to abandonment). Her past medical history was unremarkable and she was taking no medications for physical maladies.
Two months prior to referral to our services her general practitioner started her on pregabalin 150 mg once daily for anxiety and in this time she had reported no appreciable side effects. She started attending anxiety management groups and there was some improvement regarding her anxiety symptoms. However, the patient was still complaining of generalized anxiety with significant panic attacks on occasion. Her pregabalin dose was increased to 150 mg twice daily and subsequently, after approximately 2 weeks, to 150 mg three times a day. She was also receiving venlafaxine MR 225 mg in the morning, as well as lorazepam 1–2 mg, as required (max 4 mg/24 h). Lorazepam was seldom utilized and only in severe anxiety attacks.
The increase in pregabalin dose appeared effective in managing her anxiety symptoms; improving her everyday functioning and reducing the number of panic attacks. After 3–4 days of receiving pregabalin 150 mg three times a day, she reported visual hallucinations and became increasingly agitated. She described having a ‘foggy state of mind’ and experienced visual hallucinations described as ‘black shadows’ in her visual field mimicking people, animals or objects. She further reported that on occasion the visual hallucinations were well defined and colorful; however, these were infrequent occurrences. There were no signs that the patient was experiencing depersonalization-derealization disorder and she remained alert, fully oriented in time, place and person, had organized speech and her memory was intact. She also maintained insight throughout; clearly distinguishing these hallucinations from reality. She did not report any delusions and there were no hallucinations in other sensory modalities