A 37-year-old Caucasian male with a known history of aplastic anemia (AA), presented to a rural hospital after a ground level fall. AA was diagnosed 10 months earlier after he was investigated for pancytopenia. A bone marrow biopsy showed cellularity of only 10% and the presence of a small paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria clone (less than 0.2%). He received standard combination treatment for AA with cyclosporine 225 mg orally twice daily, horse anti-thymocyte globulin (ATG) 40 mg/kg daily for 4 consecutive days, and prednisone 1 mg/kg daily. His other medications included daily Pantoloc 40 mg orally, daily Valtrex 500 mg orally, and daily Dapsone 50 mg orally for Pneumocystis jirovecii prophylaxis due to a reported allergy to trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole. He had recently quit smoking and denied alcohol use but actively used other recreational drugs, including marijuana, cocaine, and methamphetamine. He was unemployed. He had no known other medical co-morbidities and was taking no other medications prior to developing AA. The etiology of AA was felt to be idiopathic because he had no improvement after an initial trial of sobriety. AA improved following immunosuppressive therapy and, although human leukocyte antigen typing was performed, a subsequent bone marrow transplant was deferred not only because of the medical therapeutic response but also due to his ongoing recreational drug use. Although he was no longer transfusion dependent a month after starting immunosuppressive therapy, his treatment compliance waned overtime due to regular ongoing recreational drug use of cocaine and methamphetamines. He routinely used unsterilized tap water for illicit drug injections, but he denied other exposure to fresh or salt water sources at home or in the community.
On presentation to the emergency department he was not in distress, with a heart rate of 90 bpm and a blood pressure of 116/59. Severe pallor was noted upon examination, as well as a petechial rash and mild ecchymoses (Fig