A previously healthy 17-year old boy was admitted to the pediatric ward due to a one-week history of fatigue, inspiratory left side chest pain with the intensity of 7/10, dry cough and nasal obstruction. He did not report any recent history of fever, dyspnea, night sweats, hemoptysis, ear or throat pain, abdominal pain, weight loss or recent alterations in his bladder and bowel habits. There were no known recent contacts with people presenting with infectious diseases, including tuberculosis. He recalled having had a fall and having landed on his left side while playing football 1 week prior to the onset of the symptoms. His family medical history and his past personal medical background was unremarkable except for an episode of acute bronchiolitis and an episode of community-acquired pneumonia that required hospitalization at the age of 2 years. He maintained a regular follow-up in the immunoallergology outpatient clinic due to a history of allergic rhinitis. His vaccine schedule was updated according to the national vaccination programme.
The adolescent denied alcohol or smoking habits and recreational drug use.
On admission at his first visit to the emergency department, he was afebrile, with no signs of respiratory distress, but with diminished breath sounds on the left side. He complained of pain on palpation of the left lower costal margin. A left costal grid and a chest x-ray was performed (Fig. ), which showed the same opacity on the posterior basal segment of the left lower lobe and no signs of rib fracture; thus, the patient was discharged with oral amoxicillin 1000 mg three times a day with the diagnosis of community-acquired pneumonia.
Due to the progressive worsening of the productive cough with emission of purulent stinking thick green sputum, he returned to the emergency department 4 days after. On admission, he had a peripheral oxygen saturation of 98% (FiO2 21%), a heart rate of 95 bpm and an axillary temperature of 36.7 °C. His physical appearance was described as sick