An 85-year-old Caucasian male was admitted after sudden onset of expressive aphasia and weakness in both legs lasting 20 seconds. He was athletic, self-reliant and had no cognitive impairment. During the last 28 years, he had experienced 8-10 heterogeneous episodes of acute neurological symptoms, such as central facial palsy, hemiparesis, and non-fluent aphasia, lasting from seconds to 3-4 hours. Precerebral duplex and electrocardiography (ECG) were performed several times with normal results, and EEG registration and 24-hour Holter monitoring had been normal. Previous MRI scans showed no abnormal restricted diffusion, as seen in acute cerebral infarcts, but infarct sequelae in the left temporal lobe and both thalami. Several years later, three additional infarct sequelae were detected in the cerebellum. The patient was treated with platelet inhibitors, and medications and dosages were adjusted after new episodes. There was no suspicion of lack of compliance. Except from age, migraine, and previous smoking, with cessation 35 years ago, he had no known risk factors for cerebrovascular disease. On the current admission, he presented with reduced motor speed in his left arm and leg. Electrocardiography and Holter monitoring showed no signs of atrial fibrillation. CT and MRI revealed multiple, cortical infarct sequelae in the anterior and posterior circulation territories of both hemispheres, and MRI also detected two acute embolic infarcts in the right occipital lobe and one in the left parietal lobe (Figure ). CT and MRI angiograms and duplex sonography did not show significant plaques or stenoses, and pre- and intracerebral flow were normal with asymmetrical vertebral arteries, which were considered a normal anatomical variant. Cortical infarcts in several vascular territories strongly suggest cardioembolic etiology, but transthoracic echocardiogram showed no cardiac sources of emboli, and there was no sign of left atrial enlargement, which may be seen in the presence of atrial fibrillation. The patient concurred to further diagnostic tests aiming to determine the cause of recurrent cerebral emboli, although he was informed that the results would not necessarily alter treatment recommendations.