We report on a 63-year-old female patient who presented in January 2016 with the following symptoms: complaint of cold sensation affecting the upper arms on both sides (left > right), weakness and arm claudication, with an increasing inability to perform work on the computer, and symptoms of a fatigue syndrome. The patient was unable to perform her employment as a hospital secretary. Clinically, pulselessness of the brachial and radial artery on both sides was noted. Bruits were discovered in the left and right subclavian artery. A blood test revealed increased levels of the inflammatory markers C-reactive protein (CRP 47.9 mg/dL) and an increased Erythrocyte Sedimentation Rate (ESR 74 mm/h). The patient had a history of hypertension, hyperlipoproteinemia, and osteoporosis; she was a former smoker and reported moderate daily alcohol consumption.
A neurological examination, an MRI of the cervical spine, and myocardial scintigraphy were without pathological findings. Duplex ultrasound of the carotid artery and upper extremities revealed noticeable intima-media thickening. For suspected large-vessel vasculitis, a diagnostic angiography was carried out, which revealed bilateral stenosis of the axillary artery at the transition to the brachial artery and, on the left side only, an additional stenosis in the proximal segment of the brachial artery. TA was diagnosed based on the American College of Rheumatology criteria, with four out of six criteria met.
The patient was admitted to a rheumatological specialist clinic in March 2016. Treatment with prednisolone 20 mg daily was started, but there was no improvement of the arm claudication. Therefore, the patient received cyclophosphamide 15 mg/kg body weight × 0.75 (=600 mg) plus prednisolone (75 mg/d initially, reduced in stages to 30 mg/d at the time of hospital discharge). Six cycles of cyclophosphamide at 3-week interval were planned, at the end of which treatment with methotrexate 15 mg subcutaneously once a week accompanied by a prednisolone maintenance dose of 10 mg/d was planned. Most of