An 84-year-old Caucasian male presented to the emergency department after a fall in his home. On presentation, the patient was alert and awake but disoriented. Mild swelling was observed on the right side of the head. The patient was severely diaphoretic, tachycardic with systolic hypertension, and had muscular spasticity in the lower extremities bilaterally. The patient was unable to move his legs or ambulate. He denied any loss of consciousness, confusion, seizure, numbness, weakness, or sensory loss. Vitally, the patient had a pulse of 105, blood pressure of 154/56, respiratory rate of 18, and body mass index (BMI) of 22.8.
A computed tomography (CT) scan of the head and cervical spine showed no acute intracranial pathology, acute vertebral compression fracture, or gross subluxation. No acute vertebral compression fracture was seen on the X-ray of the pelvis. Past medical history was significant for hypertension, hyperlipidemia, and prostate cancer with seed implants. The patient was a social drinker with no history of smoking. His family history was remarkable for diabetes mellitus type 2 in his mother.
On further evaluation, it was found that the patient had been treated for episodes of severe rigidity in his back and lower extremities bilaterally in a nearby hospital. The records were obtained and they revealed that he was positive for anti-GAD 65 antibody. The patient was diagnosed with SPS and intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIG) was administered, which as per records showed improvement in the patients' symptoms.
The patient was initially managed with gabapentin and clonazepam, resulting in decreased spasticity. Later, the patient was started on IVIG with minimal improvement in his symptoms. Episodes of spasms were observed, lasting up to three hours and the rigidity was relieved by IV lorazepam. Although lorazepam and IVIG therapy have been helpful in improving acute symptoms, the patient has continued to experience episodic muscle spasms with increasing frequency and severity for a duration of three