This is a case of a 59-year-old morbidly obese female with situs inversus totalis who presented for a laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy. Her BMI was 38 (height 4 ft 11.5 inches, weight 188.2 pounds), and she had a lifelong history of morbid obesity and obesity-related comorbidities, including obstructive sleep apnea requiring a continuous positive airway pressure machine, an elevated hemoglobin A1c (5.8) and a fasting blood glucose increasing her risk of developing diabetes mellitus, and degenerative joint disease which significantly impacted her ability to exercise. The main challenges she identified in losing weight involved eating carbohydrate rich foods, overeating during meals and limited activity due to musculoskeletal pain. The patient had made multiple attempts to lose weight through commercial dieting programs but had been unsuccessful. The patient also completed a six-month medically supervised diet through her primary care provider, which also included working closely with a bariatric registered dietician, following a strict diet of about 1800 calories/day and performing modified exercise, about 120 minutes/week. Despite these intense medical weight loss efforts, she was unable to maintain a healthy weight. The patient was motivated to try bariatric surgery after she witnessed the significant weight loss success her daughters had from this intervention. Her greatest hope from the bariatric surgery was to be healthier and to alleviate her obesity-related comorbidities.
The patient’s surgical history included cesarean section and evacuation of an ectopic pregnancy. She was a former smoker, quitting over 25 years ago, and has no other history of substance or alcohol use. Family history is positive for obesity, diabetes, hypertension, coronary artery disease and hypercholesterolemia. She did not take any medications, including supplements, except for Ibuprofen 800 mg 1–3/daily for musculoskeletal pain.
The patient underwent a comprehensive evaluation and treatment plan prior to the surgery including: psychiatric evaluation and clearance, nutritional consultation with a registered dietician, education about bariatric surgery and pre