The patient is a 57 years old never smoker female who initially received a clinical diagnosis of pneumonia. As symptoms failed to resolve with antimicrobials, a subsequent CT scan of the chest revealed a partially cavitary mass in the right lower lung lobe. This imaging finding was followed with CT scans for two years at an outside facility showing slow growth. Eventually, a CT guided biopsy revealed mucinous adenocarcinoma of the lung with predominant lepidic pattern. A PET CT and MRI of the brain at the time did not show any other disease sites and she received a right lower lobectomy which confirmed the diagnosis and the stage as pT2bpN0M0 (IIA). Following surgery, the patient received adjuvant chemotherapy with carboplatin and paclitaxel for four cycles.
She carried a diagnosis of idiopathic autoimmune hearing loss, that had been successfully treated with mycophenolate mofetil. Her family history included lung cancer in both of her parents and her sister, all smoking related, as well as breast cancer in her maternal aunt.
A year after her surgery, disease recurrence was documented on imaging in the right pleura. The same neoplasm was identified upon pathology review of a right pleural biopsy and she received local radiation therapy as salvage treatment. Follow up imaging in 3 months identified new lung nodules and the patient was referred to our institution. Figure shows the metabolically avid right pleural thickening that was radiated and one of the lung nodules at the time of disease recurrence following radiation. Molecular analysis of the original lobectomy material with next generation sequencing revealed a BRAF V600E mutation. Subsequently, she was initiated on combination of dabrafenib and trametinib treatment in the context of a clinical trial.
While on the experimental drugs for two weeks, she experienced significant fatigue, persistent fevers up to 38 °C and generalized myalgias necessitating holding dabrafenib and trametinib. Nevertheless, symptoms persisted and infectious and rheumatology workups were initiated at the time. In addition, three weeks after stopping