A 51-year-old male with a history of nonischemic cardiomyopathy with a left ventricular assist device was admitted for expedited heart transplant evaluation. The evaluation included an elective colonoscopy in light of a family history of colorectal cancer in his mother who died at age 61 from the disease. The patient had his first screening colonoscopy at age 45 and was diagnosed with benign polyps, which were removed, and left-sided diverticulosis. The procedure was uncomplicated and he was advised to repeat a colonoscopy in five years.
The patient was without GI symptoms at the time of his colonoscopy. He denied tobacco, alcohol, or illicit drug use. His medications included amiodarone, aspirin, famotidine, levothyroxine, lisinopril, metoprolol, sildenafil, and intravenous heparin as well as torsemide, acetaminophen, docusate sodium, and melatonin as needed. On examination, he had a left ventricular assist device port entering at the upper abdomen, but otherwise the abdomen was soft and nontender to palpation with normal bowel sounds and no appreciable masses or ascites.
The patient underwent a standard bowel preparation which included a clear liquid diet the day prior to the procedure and 20mg of Dulcolax with 4 liters of polyethylene glycol the night prior to the procedure. Monitored anesthesia care sedation was administered with propofol. The colonoscopy was performed at night without difficulty with good bowel preparation. Abdominal pressure was briefly required to maneuver around the splenic flexure. The colonoscope was advanced to the cecum with identification of the appendiceal orifice and ileocecal valve. Findings included multiple sigmoid and descending colon diverticula and two, small (<5mm) sessile polyps that were removed using cold forceps.
The night of the procedure the patient had no pain or nausea and ate dinner and breakfast the following morning without incident. He then developed epigastric abdominal pain in the midmorning approximately 12-14 hours after the procedure and had one episode of nonbloody, nonbilious emesis