The patient discussed in this case is a 66-year-old female with an unknown past medical history since the patient had not been seen by a physician for approximately 43 years. The patient was transferred to our university hospital from a community hospital for management of chest pressure, shortness of breath, and vaginal bleeding. The patient presented with a one-week history of chest pressure. This was described as a feeling of tightness which occurred several times over the span of one week and was not associated with exertion. Her shortness of breath had been progressively worsening over one month. Prior, to one month ago, she reportedly was able to ambulate approximately 100 yards without difficulty. By the time of her presentation, the patient stated that she was only able to ambulate approximately 20 yards due to shortness of breath on exertion. The patient stated that her vaginal bleeding was similar in volume as compared to previous menstrual cycles and had been occurring approximately two times per week. Her past surgical history was significant for hiatal hernia repair and tonsillectomy, both during adolescence. Furthermore, she smoked once pack of cigarettes daily for fifteen years and has quit two months prior to admission. She had two aunts who passed away due to myocardial infarctions at unspecified ages. On review of systems, the patient reported decreased appetite, fatigue, diaphoresis, cough, shortness of breath, chest pressure, nausea, vomiting, dysuria, hematuria, vaginal bleeding, pallor, light-headedness, and a 20-pound weight loss over several months. Physical exam at time of admission was unremarkable.
In the Emergency Department, the patient underwent an EKG which demonstrated Q waves in inferior leads. Her troponin T was 0.61 ng/mL. Subsequent troponin T levels were measured, and within 24 hours, this increased to 5.88 ng/mL. Therefore, the patient was diagnosed with a non-ST elevation myocardial infarction and cardiology was consulted.
The patient was found