A 45-years-old male engineer with no history of trauma, presented to us with progressive upper back pain for two months that eventually became severe and disabling. The pain was non mechanical and was present even at rest and night. He denied any constitutional symptoms. He had no significant medical history except that he was a smoker for over 20 years.
On neurological examination, patient indicated altered sensation from T8 dermatome and below; however, upper and lower limb motor power was normal. He had an unsteady gait and exaggerated deep tendon reflexes in both lower limbs.
Initial X-rays of the thoracic spine were unremarkable, but MRI demonstrated abnormal marrow replacement and enhancement of the entire T6 vertebra including its posterior elements and right 6th posterior rib. MRI axial cuts at T6 level revealed right postero-lateral epidural extension of the lesion causing severe spinal canal, right lateral recess and right exit foraminal stenosis (, ). In addition, an irregular right lung nodule was noted. CT evaluation confirmed the vertebral involvement () and the presence of a lobulated right lung nodule with emphysematous changes in bilateral upper lobes. Further radiological assessment revealed no other lesion elsewhere.
During the course of the work up, he developed bilateral lower limb weakness and was unable to stand. A diagnosis of thoracic myelopathy due to cord compression was made and immediate surgical management in the form of T6 decompression laminectomy along with T3-T8 posterior instrumentation was performed (). Surgery was uneventful; patient had good recovery and was ambulating independently.
Tissue biopsy from T6 right pedicle revealed presence of metastatic tumour cells with moderate amount of eosinophilic cytoplasm in the marrow spaces suggestive of a metastatic carcinoma with neuro-endocrine features (). Tumour cells were positive for cytokeratin AE1/3, carcinoembrionic antigen (CEA), chromogranin and synaptophysin. Proliferation marker Ki67 was found to be 40%.
Early post-operative MRI showed adequate decompression