A 70-year-old white man developed right knee pain and swelling followed by left ankle pain and swelling over a week. Over the next 4 months, his symptoms progressed to include both knees, both feet, and both hands. Due to the severity of his symptoms he was unable to ambulate or carry out normal activities of daily living. He initially took ibuprofen 800 mg three times daily with some mild improvement, but at the time of presentation, it offered no relief.
In addition, he endorsed morning stiffness that persisted for most of the day. Due to the stiffness in his joints, he could no longer ambulate and presented to our clinic in a wheelchair. He previously was fully functional and independent in his activities of daily living. He was an avid fisherman and was unable to pursue his interests at all.
His past medical history was significant for metastatic melanoma initially diagnosed 2 years ago. His initial lesion was located over the left side of his neck and he had a Mohs procedure with negative margins. He was monitored closely for 1.5 years until he was found to have new right lower lobe lung nodules on positron emission tomography (PET)/computed tomography (CT) with increased fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) uptake. Wedge resection of the right lower lobe revealed metastatic melanoma with wild type BRAF and no C-KIT mutations. Continued surveillance demonstrated an increasing number of right pulmonary nodules over the next 6 months. Dual therapy nivolumab (1 mg/kg every 3 weeks for four doses followed by 240 mg every 2 weeks) and ipilimumab (3 mg/kg every 3 weeks) immunotherapy was started. After the second cycle of his immunotherapy he developed severe non-infectious colitis requiring hospitalization. His immunotherapy was stopped and his colitis resolved with supportive care and glucocorticoids. Without further immunotherapy, he developed new left pulmonary nodules within 6 months that were increasing in size. Single agent immunotherapy with nivolumab (240 mg every 2 weeks) was started 4 months before