Our patient was a 47-year-old male with past medical history including aorto-occlusive disease status post femoral-popliteal bypass, with peripheral artery disease, coronary artery disease, and tobacco dependence. He initially presented with right groin and lower-extremity numbness with an otherwise unremarkable review of systems. The patient was diagnosed with right limb occlusion with critical limb ischemia of the right lower extremity due to an aorto-femoral bypass graft occlusion. Initial workup included a computed tomography (CT) angiogram of the chest, prior to treatment of the occlusion with a femoral-femoral bypass.
Computed tomography angiography (CTA) of the chest revealed a 1.4 cm nodule at the left lung apex, slightly cavitary in nature together with a left paratracheal soft tissue density that was suspected to be adenopathy related to pneumonia that was being treated. The lesion was considered to be incidental with the recommendation of short-term follow-up with another chest CT in three months. There was no prior imaging for comparison.
Two months later, the patient presented to the emergency room with bilateral chest pain and associated shortness of breath and dyspnea. He was admitted to the intensive care unit (ICU) for respiratory instability and treated for multiple bilateral pulmonary embolisms. The diagnosing CTA of the chest showed an increase in the left upper lobe mass density with 2.5 cm x 2.4 cm dimensions including marked interval increase in diffuse mediastinal and bilateral hilar adenopathy involving levels T5, T10, and T11, suggesting a primary neoplasm with metastatic disease. The primary lesion was pleural based and thought to be invading the pleura. Once the patient stabilized, a CT-guided left upper lobe biopsy was obtained.
Biopsy revealed a poorly differentiated non-small cell carcinoma consistent with squamous cell carcinoma. Sections showed nests and individual large cells with brisk mitotic activity with medium to large nuclei. There was considerable tumor necrosis. Immunohistochemical stains showed positive staining for p63 and negative