A 22-year-old female patient complained about the amount of gingiva that was exposed when she smiled, which caused aesthetic discomfort for the patient. In the anamnesis, the patient reported not having any systemic problems, not continuously using any medication, and not being a smoker. A clinical examination confirmed the presence of an excessive exposure of the gingiva in the upper arch of teeth 14 to 24 (). The periodontal examination, which consisted of an analysis of gingival marginal bleeding, bleeding on probing, periodontal probing depth, and gingival margin position using a millimeter probe, confirmed that the periodontal tissues were in a healthy condition. In addition, conical beam tomography with an oral retractor was ordered to evaluate the bone and gingival tissue associated with the upper anterior teeth, and molding and photographs were also ordered.
The tomography showed that the bone tissue was at the level of the enamel-cementum junction and that the gingival tissue covered part of the anatomic crown (). Virtual planning was also performed using DSD, which showed the need to increase the size of the clinical crowns for better aesthetics (). With these data, it was shown that the patient suffered from altered passive eruption and, therefore, would need an osteotomy to enlarge the clinical crown. After this diagnosis, a flapless, minimally invasive surgical technique with piezoelectric ultrasound to perform the osteotomy and a mockup to guide the removal of soft tissue was proposed for the patient.
Surgical planning was performed by DSD with the patient's smile photos and crown measurements using an 80% width to length ratio. After design of the optimal teeth, the distance from the cementum-enamel junction to the top of the bone crest and the position of the gingival margin in relation to the enamel-cementum junction was measured by tomographic analysis (). These measures were used as a reference for the wax model and mockup (). In addition, these measurements were used with tomography to plan the amount of osteotomy