A 74-year-old man was referred to our hospital with severe aortic valve insufficiency and left ventricle dilatation. His past medical history showed hypercholesterolemia and a recent episode of de novo atrial flutter which was treated with electrical cardioversion. His medication included atorvastatin, nebivolol, and dabigatran. He stopped smoking 40 years ago and uses 14 units of alcohol per week.
The patient's vital signs were normal. Physical examination revealed normal pulmonary, abdominal, and neurological functions. Except for a diastolic murmur at the right lower sternal border, cardiovascular examination revealed normal heart sounds. Coronary angiography did not show significant coronary artery disease. Transthoracic echocardiography revealed a severe aortic valve insufficiency with a somewhat impaired function of the left ventricle. Cardiac MRI showed severe aortic valve insufficiency combined with a dilated aortic root (46 mm) and a severely dilated left ventricle with an ejection fraction of 50%. Aortic valve replacement with a biological device (Edwards Lifesciences Perimount 27 mm) was performed. No complications occurred during surgery. Except for a ventral pneumothorax, the patient's recovery was uneventful. He was discharged in good condition to the cardiology nursing ward of a peripheral hospital on postoperative day 4. At two weeks follow-up, the patient was doing well. He did not experience any cardiac complaints. For further recovery, the patient was referred back to the referring cardiology department. After 6 weeks, the patient was reevaluated for his recovery at the policlinic of cardiothoracic surgery, where no abnormal findings were observed during physical examination.
The excised aortic valve was tricuspid and measured 3.5 × 1.3 × 0.3 cm. The cusps were partially calcified. Microscopic examination of cross-sections of the aortic valve leaflets showed areas of calcification with focal ceroid, as can be found in the atherosclerotic valves [, ]. In between the calcification areas, a few reactive small thin-walled blood vessels were found (). Next to calcification, fibrosis and mucoid degeneration was