We present the case of a 75-year-old healthy male patient, who arrived at our Emergency Department for excruciating pain and swelling of the left leg that, when measured, resulted 1,5 times bigger than the right one.
The pain started the day before and worsened during the day, as the diameter of the leg was also increasing. He did not report any previous trauma. The only relevant anamnestic data was a short flight 4 weeks before.
The patient's past medical history was characterized by type II diabetes, hypertension, COPD, and also a nephrotic syndrome, recently diagnosed and still under investigation. His cardiovascular risk factors were cigarette smoking and arterial hypertension.
At the clinical examination, the left leg presented typical signs of phlegmasia cerulea dolens (): distal pulses were not palpable, and the calf was swollen, reddened, and painful, typical for a compartment syndrome.
An urgent angio-CT scan was performed and showed an extensive thrombosis of both renal veins, a hypoplasia of the inferior vena cava () extending from the renal veins to the diaphragm, and a complete thrombosis of the deep venous system of the left leg ().
The venous drainage was partially granted by collaterals, the major being a lumbar vein, which drained into the superior mesenteric vein.
The CT scan also showed a minimal bilateral basilar pulmonary embolism, a mass in the left mammary gland, and also an exceptionally big left inguinal hernia.
We decided to perform an iliofemoral venous thrombectomy associated with an intraoperative phlebography and venous PTA. The phlebography showed thrombotic material in the external iliac vein. The common iliac vein was occluded, determining a retrograde flux in the femoral vein. A thrombectomy with Fogarty catheter was performed, followed by a percutaneous angioplasty with the restoration of an anterograde flux. Due to the presence of good collateral circles, it was not necessary to liberate the renal veins. Because of the presence of a compartment