A 5-month old female infant was brought by worried parents to our department with an accessory lower limb attached to the lower back. The infant was born with it and it was growing commensurate with the growth of the rest of the infant’s body. The infant was the fourth child of her parents, who had contracted a non-consanguineous marriage ten years ago. All the previous siblings were normal. The parents did not give any history of maternal illness, smoking, alcohol abuse, medication intake, radiation exposure or any other obvious gestational insult through the course of their pregnancy that yielded the anomalous baby.
The mother had not undergone any antenatal screening and hence, the condition was obvious only after natural delivery at home. Except for sluggish movement in the normal right lower limb, the infant had no other associated systemic abnormality. The parents were particularly concerned about the gruesome appearance and difficulty with care and posture of the infant. Clinical examination of the infant revealed a well-developed accessory lower limb arising from the back at the level of L2 through S1 vertebrae ().
The accessory lower limb was pointing cranially. Grossly, it resembled a normal lower limb with a partially developed foot containing only big toe and the adjacent next toe. On the accessory lower limb, there were four blind ending gut loops of red color (). These used to wet the infant’s clothing with their watery secretion. Additionally, there were areas with dimples mimicking the natal cleft and anal opening. There was no spontaneous movement, however withdrawal to pain was present in the accessory lower limb.
The normal left lower limb was neurologically intact. However, there was grade 3 weakness of the normal right lower limb. The infant had normal looking external genitalia, anus, abdominal and thoracic walls. Plain X-rays showed the osseous components of the accessory lower limb (). Lumbosacral computed tomography with three dimensional reconstruction revealed deficient posterior bony elements at the level of L2