A 67-year-old female with history of chronic tobacco use, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, hypertension, and hyperlipidemia, presented to the ED with symptoms of TIA. The patient described the acute onset of left-sided facial weakness that waxed and waned, recurring several times throughout the day, and lasting 2–3 minutes at a time. The left facial weakness was also associated with mild, left-arm weakness and “clumsiness” involving fine motor function of her left hand. She noted lightheadedness but denied leg weakness, headache, visual changes, chest pain or shortness of breath. She also noted that symptoms were brought on by use of her upper extremities and when she changed her body position from lying to sitting. She denied any similar symptoms previously or stroke history. Of note, she noticed a rapid improvement in her symptoms to resolution just prior to ED presentation.
On examination, her blood pressure (BP) was 183/86 millimeters of mercury (mmHg). She was awake, alert, oriented, and able to describe a detailed history. Her cranial nerves were intact, motor strength was 5/5 bilaterally, and fine motor movements in both her hands were normal. There was no ataxia, extraocular muscle dysfunction, or indication of posterior circulation involvement.
Just after her initial asymptomatic presentation to the ED, her symptoms recurred when her systolic BP dropped by 20 mmHg upon standing from a supine position. Emergent computed tomography angiogram (CTA) of the head and neck demonstrated a severe flow-limiting lesion of the innominate artery (). Further investigation with magnetic resonance imaging demonstrated decreased signal intensity within the right internal carotid artery at the cavernous sinus and petrous segments, a finding that potentially represented slow flow ().
The patient subsequently underwent emergent cerebral angiogram, which demonstrated occlusion of the proximal innominate artery () at the aortic arch with resultant left to right vertebral artery steal phenomenon supplying the right subclavian artery (). The