A 41-year-old non-smoker obese female patient was examined at the Department of Neurology and the Center for rehabilitation. Relevant history of the patient is summarized on a timeline in Fig. . She showed an onset of neuromuscular disorders during early childhood with a delay in motor and written language development. She had a hard time to complete physical exercise at school and always finished last. There was nothing really alarming in terms of muscle disorder until her first pregnancy at the age of 33 during which she experienced shortness of breath (dyspnea) at the 7 months of gestation and showed signs of weakness of lower limbs afterwards. At the age of 34 she showed worsening of breath symptoms, suffered from sleep apnea and started using a mechanical ventilation machine. Alarming symptoms of skeletal muscle disorders occurred immediately after delivery with progressive but rapidly incapacitating weakness of lower limbs. This worsened during the 3 following years, a period during which she first started being unable to get up by herself and then was unable to climb stairs. At the age of 37, she started to use a cane, then a walker for her daily walking needs. At the age of 39, she started using a wheelchair to move outdoors. Despite these signs of progressive muscle weakness, she never had a thorough neuromuscular investigation. It was wrongly thought that her health problems, in general, was mainly related to being overweight. At the age of 41, she had four episodes of lower limb paralysis during which she was completely unable to move her legs and support her weight. She did not seek medical consultation for the first three episodes. For the fourth, she was admitted to the emergency room (ER) and first referred to the Department of Neurology and then to the Center for Rehabilitation.
The family history showed that her mother died at the age of 66 from a heart attack associated with non-compaction cardiomyopathy. There is nothing remarkable in terms of muscle disorders in