A 16-year-old, black female patient was referred from the ophthalmology service to our Ear Nose and Throat (ENT) unit at Inkosi Albert Luthuli Central Hospital, Durban South Africa with acute progressive right sided loss of vision for 3 days. It was associated with intermittent ipsilateral moderate-intensity frontal headaches radiating to the ipsilateral temporal area. She had been diagnosed with optic neuritis and commenced on methylprednisolone (250 mg intravenously every 6 h) 2 days previously, with minimal improvement. She noted disturbance in colour vision, and pain on eye movement but no diplopia prior to loss of vision. Computed tomographic (CT) imaging had shown pan sinusitis resulting in her referral to the ENT unit. She had chronic rhinosinusitis for which she was on treatment with a steroid spray and nasal douche. She did not have current or recent nasal obstruction, purulent nasal discharge or facial pressure. There was no associated fever, nausea or vomiting, no history of trauma, or preceding acute illness (particularly no recent upper respiratory tract infection), no other neurological symptoms or any periorbital swelling. She was a student in a metropolitan high school, did not smoke or consume alcohol, and denied any contact with animals or consumption of unpasteurised milk. She reported visiting her rural home approximately 6 weeks prior to presentation but denied consuming any raw milk or contact with horses. Her last normal menstrual cycle was a week prior to presentation.
On examination, she was a well looking patient, who was not acutely ill, fully conscious and had normal vital signs. ENT examination was normal except for an inflamed nasal mucosa. She had poor light perception on the right side (progressively worse since the initial visual acuity of counting fingers at first presentation to ophthalmology) and decreased colour appreciation on Ishihara chart assessment. She had full range of extra ocular motility and anterior segment examination was normal. Posterior segment examination revealed quiet vitreous, no papilledema or