A 33-year-old Caucasian male was transported to the emergency department after a low-speed motorbike accident. He had a free medical record with occasional tobacco use. On presentation, the patient had normal vital signs: Blood pressure: 133/91 mmHg, heart rate: 72bpm, peripheral oxygen saturation (SpO2): 100 %, Temperature 36,8 °C. He complained of deep right upper quadrant and right flank at rest and right upper limb pain, without evidence of ecchymosis or lacerations on his chest or abdomen. Some superficial abrasions were visible on his right elbow and his right lower quadrant. Physical examination revealed mild tenderness to deep palpation in his right upper quadrant and right flank.
There were no abnormal signs on his blood analysis, metabolic or coagulation panel. Urinalysis revealed mild microscopic hematuria (20–26 erythrocytes per field vision). Chest, spine and pelvis plain radiography was negative for fractures or any other abnormal findings. A focused assessment sonography for trauma (FAST) performed by a clinical radiologist in the Emergency Department revealed no evidence of trauma. An abdominal contrast-enhanced computed tomography scan (CE-CT) was performed due to persistence of pain and high clinical suspicion. The CT revealed round enlargement of the right adrenal (4.2 × 2.7 cm) with increased density (60-70HU), periadrenal fat stranding and right diaphragmatic crus thickening without extravasation of the intravascular contrast. No injuries from other organs were spotted and the diagnosis of an isolated right adrenal hematoma (AH) was made (). As a result, he was admitted to the clinic for preservative treatment and further monitoring. He had stable vitals and body temperature throughout his hospitalization period and gradually improving pain after intravenous analgesia. He was discharged with oral antibiotics and analgesia for 6 days. A follow-up MRI scheduled in 7 days, showed no size reduction and acute AH characters with signs of possible active hemorrhage (), whereas, close affiliation of the structures posterior to