A 69-year old Caucasian female was admitted to the emergency department due to fall from 50 cm height and she was complaining of intense pain in her right flank around the impact area. The examination revealed pain in the lower right thoracic area and right upper quadrant in superficial and deep palpation with no sign of abrasions or ecchymosis. Her vital signs, on presentation, were slightly abnormal (Blood pressure: 150/83 mmHg, Heart rate: 84 bpm, SpO2: 97 %, Body Temperature: 36.7 °C). The patient’s medical history consisted of hypertension under medication and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) due to smoking. She did not mention anti-coagulant or anti-platelet use. Chest radiograph showed minor right pleural effusion without rib fractures and FAST did not reveal any evidence of trauma. There were no abnormal findings from her blood analysis, metabolic/coagulation panel, and urinalysis. The patient constantly complained about pain in her right upper quadrant and right flank even after the administration of analgesics. A thoracoabdominal CE-CT was performed to evaluate the origin of pleural effusion and abdominal pain. The CT confirmed the pleural fluid diagnosis as well as mentioned a small round lesion of variable attenuation with a very small focal hyperdense area on the right adrenal, with no active extravasation (). No other traumatic injuries from the chest or abdomen were described. The patient was admitted to the clinic for monitoring. She remained hemodynamically stable but complained of pain and difficulty in deep breath even with IV analgesia. Therefore, a thoracoabdominal CT scan was scheduled. The right adrenal lesion appeared as a more well-defined hypodense oval mass, possibly adenoma, while the rest of the gland was slightly enlarged and hyperdense (). The possibility of mild adrenal contusion was discussed. The pleural effusion remained unchanged and treated conservatively. No other evidence of trauma was concluded from the rest of the radiographic examination. Hyponatremia and hypokalemia remained even after fluid and electrolyte administration but otherwise she