A 55-year-old female with a history of renal cell carcinoma of the left kidney metastatic to the bony pelvis, lungs, mediastinum, and spleen presented to the emergency department with shortness of breath, pleuritic chest pain, and left scapular pain. She presented to the same emergency department one week prior with pleuritic chest pain but was discharged home after pulmonary embolism was ruled out.
She was diagnosed with renal cell carcinoma of the left kidney five years prior after presenting with gross hematuria. At that time, she underwent left radical nephrectomy. One year later, she developed a metastatic lesion in the bony pelvis for which she underwent radiation therapy. She as treated with pazopanib for two years with stable disease but stopped due to gastro-intestinal toxicity. Therapy was switched to nivolumab, which was discontinued after six months due to grade four pancreatitis and grade two rash. Eight months prior to her current presentation, she underwent radiation treatment to metastatic lesions in the left pubic symphysis and spleen. The patient initiated therapy with cabozantinib, a tyrosine-kinase-inhibitor used to treat renal cell carcinoma, three months prior to her current presentation.
On physical examination, she was wheezing in all lung fields and hypoxemic requiring supplemental oxygen. She had prior 12-pack-year smoking history but no formal diagnosis of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). A chest x-ray revealed a small left pleural effusion and left basilar atelectasis. Laboratory workup, including complete blood count, renal and hepatic panels, and troponin, was unremarkable. An electrocardiogram (ECG) revealed sinus tachycardia without signs of ischemia. CT was not repeated due to her negative CT angiogram one-week prior. Given radicular and left scapular pain, an MRI of the spine was done, which revealed no pathologic metastases in the thoracic or lumbar spine but did reveal a new sacral lesion. Given her progressive stridor, she underwent laryngoscopy, which revealed a normal