A 67-year old male patient presented to the otolaryngology clinic with a swelling on the left side of his jaw which had been present for 12 years but had enlarged recently. His medical history included an operation for a swelling on the right side of his jaw at another centre, 17 years previously. However, there was no medical record of that operation. His recent medical treatment included doxazosin for hypertension and inhaler bronchodilator for chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. Pathology examination of the biopsy materials of the swelling excluded malignancy and the patient was scheduled for a parotidectomy operation with a diagnosis of benign Whartin tumor. He was a smoker for 55 years and an ex-coal mine worker and rhonchi were present in his physical examination. Therefore, chest radiography and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) were performed. In these examinations, a 40 mm ARSA aneurysm was observed posterior of the trachea ( ). Thorax CT angiography with contrast was then performed to determine the relation of the aneurysm to adjacent organs ( ).
Although an endovascular intervention had been planned initially, because of the patient’s comorbidities, the anatomical measurements of the ARSA were inappropriate for placement of an endovascular stent so we decided to perform open surgery. We planned surgical resection of the Kommerell diverticulum through left thoracotomy and repair of the descending aorta with primary sutures or patching of the descending aorta with polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE) graft. We were also going to implant the left subclavian artery into the left common carotid artery with fine running polypropylene sutures.
Written informed consent was obtained from the patient and he was operated under general anesthesia. The chest cavity was accessed through the 4th intercostal space after left lateral thoracotomy. Sudden abundant bleeding from the posterior wall of the aneurysm occurred during surgical exploration of the aortic arch. The patient was lost because of the massive bleeding and hemodynamic instability.