A 50-year-old female patient presented with hematuria, massive weight loss (45 kg), asthenia and right lumbar pain 7 months prior to the consult. Previous blood work-up revealed anemia and previous CT and ultrasound revealed a solid injury of 10 cm on the right kidney and a mass in the right flank (). The patient denied previous family history of neoplasia and previous diseases, although she confirmed smoking habits.
Physical exam revealed a palpable mass with roughly 10 cm at the right hypochondrium and another palpable mass situated at the dorsal surface of the left lumbar region with roughly 5 cm. The patient had regular and stable vital signs.
Routine admission blood work-up confirmed anemia, and a contrasted CT scan revealed a solid mass on the right kidney (12 cm) and a solid mass situated on the muscle plane of the abdominal wall muscles (7 cm). The patient was promptly submitted to a right total nephrectomy, retroperitoneal lymphadenectomy, right total adrenalectomy and a cavotomy with the purpose of removing the caval thrombus.
The tumor and the excised kidney () were submitted to a histopathological analysis, which confirmed renal cell carcinoma of clear cell type with sarcomatoid cell type component (). The histologic grade of the tumor was 4 and the tumor was associated with neoplastic thrombus in the inferior vena cava (pT3b).
The surgery was uneventful and since the patient made a good recovery from the procedure, she was subsequently discharged from the hospital. One month later, the patient returned to the hospital for a tumor resection of the abdominal wall, which raised suspicion of metastasis.
After resection, the tumor was sent to histopathological analysis, which revealed a neoplasia with myxoid component and a predominance of fusiform cells (). The immunohistochemical profile was unspecific, with characteristics of low grade fibromyxoid sarcoma.
Since the surgery was successful and there were no complications during post-op, the patient was discharged and subsequently monitored during routine check-ups.