A right-handed, 63-year-old Chinese woman, with 12 years of education, was admitted to our hospital in September 2018 at the request of her family members.
In 2016, the patient had developed psychotic symptoms, including delusions and auditory hallucination, without an apparent cause. She said someone wanted to harm her and was talking about her. Sometimes she told her family members that she heard knocking on the door, and she exhibited diminished emotional expression and avolition. She required the support of family members to conduct daily activities and communicate with others. Her sleep quality was poor, but she showed no disturbance of consciousness. She did not seek medical advice and receive any remedy at that time.
After these symptoms had continued for about 12 months, she was taken by her family to the outpatient department of our hospital. Brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) did not reveal any obvious structural abnormalities (Fig. ). She was diagnosed with schizophrenia by an experienced psychiatrist based on criteria in the fifth edition of the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders []. Delusions and hallucinations disappeared after the patient took 5 mg of olanzapine every night for 1 month. We monitored the blood glucose, blood lipid, blood pressure and weight every month to investigate the possibility of metabolic syndrome after treatment with olanzapine. However, she began to walk slowly, her neck became rigid, and she experienced episodic memory impairment, leading her to forget new events, ask the same question repeatedly and get lost in new places. Her physical functions, such as dressing and eating, were also impaired. However, she did not develop language dysfunction, and she was able to communicate smoothly with family members. She was treated with benzhexol hydrochloride at 2 mg every night for extrapyramidal symptoms, but the symptoms did not improve. The daily dose of olanzapine was reduced to 2.5 mg in July 2017, but the symptoms still did not improve after 1 month. Therefore, we believe that