The authors report a case of a 29-year-old Saudi woman who was G4T2P0A1L2 at 21 weeks of gestation. She was free from medical illness and she had had no previous surgical procedures. She is a housewife; she never smoked tobacco or drank alcohol, and she had no history of recent travel to endemic or pandemic areas. She was referred based on an antenatal ultrasound finding that showed multiple fetal anomalies. This ultrasound had been conducted at another hospital for evaluation and management. Her past obstetrical history was uneventful with two normal term vaginal deliveries and a history of first trimester unexplained miscarriages. She is married to a first-degree cousin working in a governmental institute; there is no history of genetic or congenital anomaly in either of their families.
Her current pregnancy was spontaneous with no history of illicit drug use or exposure to infection or radiation. Her initial early antenatal scan diagnosis showed suspicion of possible fetal diaphragmatic hernia and required further validation which was not possible at the maternal–fetal medicine (MFM) unit at the hospital which also did not have available sonographic specialists. During her first antenatal visit at 21 weeks + 0 day of gestation, the results of her anatomy scan revealed a single viable fetus with estimated fetal weight (EFW) on 50th percentile with normal biometry measurements.
Further detailed anatomy scan findings revealed a male fetus with both kidneys appearing small in size, hyperechoic dysplastic, both ureters were dilated, urinary bladder looked abnormal in shape with thickened bladder wall, and umbilical cord at fetal insertion side appeared thickened. In addition, the diaphragm was seen clearly separating the chest from the abdominal compartments with no evidence of diaphragmatic hernia. Both feet were clubbed and open hands were seen with no other anomalies or any soft marker seen (see Fig. .) Based on the multiple fetal structural anomalies discovered, the couple was counseled about the scan findings and advised for further workup, such as: perinatal invasive testing; toxoplasmosis,