The patient was an 82-year-old male who was scheduled for a robotic left lower lobectomy for the resection of a biopsy-proven squamous cell lung carcinoma. He had a medical history of hypertension controlled with multiple medications; a 40-pack-year history of tobacco abuse, with a 20-year history of abstinence; and a prior history of melanoma of his left upper extremity, which was successfully resected.
Standard American Society of Anesthesiology (ASA) monitors were placed and preoxygenation was performed; general anesthesia was induced with propofol, followed by the administration of muscle relaxant and the placement of a left-sided, double-lumen endotracheal tube. Additional venous access and arterial line placement occurred concurrently while the correct placement of the endotracheal tube was confirmed by bronchoscopy. The placement was then reconfirmed after the patient was situated in the right lateral decubitus position. The left lung was isolated and deflated, and the surgeon proceeded to place ports to facilitate the robotic resection as follows: the sixth intercostal space in the anterior axillary line, the third intercostal space in the anterior axillary line, and the ninth intercostal space in the posterior axillary line. The surgical procedure continued uneventfully from an anesthesia perspective with level 7 and 10 lymph node dissections, extensive lysis of adhesions and pericardial and pleural fat to facilitate visualization, and a left lower lobectomy. Surgical blood loss was estimated at less than 50 cc. Chest tubes were placed through the sixth and ninth intercostal port incisions. A bolus of 30 cc of 0.5% bupivacaine was administered via a catheter placed at the tenth intercostal space in the posterior axillary line for an elastomeric pump ball to infuse local anesthesia for post-operative pain management. Within 15 minutes of this, the patient began to experience hypotension, requiring incrementally increasing doses of vasopressors. Over the course of 10 minutes, escalating doses of phenylephrine were becoming ineffective at restoring the patient’s mean arterial pressures (MAP) to his intraoperative