The patient, a 71-year-old Caucasian female with prolonged smoking history and inconsistent medical care, presented to our institution via EMS following a mechanical fall she attributed to her chronic right hip pain. She had last been seen in our health system 1.5 years before and had intermittently received care in multiple area healthcare systems. She had known COPD with active smoking, periodontal disease, sick sinus syndrome status postpermanent pacemaker implantation, and urinary frequency. During her admission she was also diagnosed with type 2 diabetes mellitus and congestive heart failure. She had no history of industrial exposures. Her only medications included albuterol and occasional inhaled corticosteroids.
In the ED, workup revealed a large (6.1 × 5.5 cm) fungating right shoulder mass (), and the X-ray of her pelvis showed a pathologic fracture of the right iliac wing. She underwent CT of her pelvis, spine, and right shoulder without contrast, of her head with and without contrast, and of her chest/abdomen/pelvis with PO and IV contrast. These studies were remarkable for a pathologic fracture of the right iliac wing, multiple additional pelvic lytic lesions including the sacrum, right inferior pubic ramus, and left iliac wing, and lytic lesions in the right mandibular condyle, left occipital condyle, left posterior rib, right third rib, and L2 vertebral body, all concerning for metastatic disease. The shoulder CT suggested the overlying mass did not extend into underlying muscle but did identify several subcutaneous satellite nodules. The CT abdomen/pelvis showed left renal parenchymal irregularity suspicious for malignancy and bilateral adrenal nodules concerning for metastases.
On questioning, the patient reported she had fallen due to worsening of her chronic right hip pain. Her daughter reported that her right shoulder lesion had been draining, bleeding, and enlarging for two years but had been present for many years longer and that her mother had been told repeatedly to see a dermatologist but had never followed up.
She was seen