This is an 83-year-old female former smoker with past medical history of atrial fibrillation, diabetes mellitus, hypertension, and a surgical history of lumbar/cervical spinal procedures four years prior. Her medications include metformin, sotalol, and aspirin (held prior to surgery). She presented with lower back pain and was found to have thoracic (12) and lumbar (1) disk herniation with spinal cord compression for which she underwent an elective costotransversectomy and discectomy from a posterior approach. Intraoperatively, the patient had blood loss of approximately 100 cc and suffered from hypotension, possibly due to anesthesia side effects or complications of her atrial fibrillation, with mean arterial blood pressure (MAP) as low as 40 mmHg (baseline MAP preoperative being 100 mmHg). The hypotension persisted in the immediate postoperative period (MAP, 40-60 mmHg) and was managed with fluid hydration and blood pressure medicine as needed. The Patient remained alert and oriented during her entire course in the hospital postoperatively.
On postoperative day 1, the patient had full neurological recovery but complained of several episodes of painless watery diarrhea. The lack of pain was likely due to postoperative analgesia. By postoperative day 2, she was having melanotic stools with a drop in her hemoglobin from a preoperative value of 11 gm% to 7.7 gm% which was associated with hypotension (MAP persisting 40-60 mmHg), as well as weakness and lethargy. The surgical site showed no evidence of bleeding, and her blood work did not reveal any alteration in coagulation. Her abdominal exam was soft throughout her hospital course. Her workup for stool studies was negative for an infective process including Clostridium difficile antigen.
An esophageal duodenoscopy revealed diffusely ischemic duodenal mucosa affecting both the first and second parts (Figure ). A computed tomography angiogram (CTA) of the abdomen did not reveal significant stenosis of the celiac artery (50%-60%) or superior mesenteric artery (50%-60%) (Figure ).
The patient was hemodynamically