The patient is a 52-year-old female with a past medical history of hypertension, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, tobacco use, and polysubstance abuse. She had sustained a prior pulmonary embolism and was on anticoagulation. The patient presented with exertional angina in an outpatient setting. Her evaluation included a pharmacologic nuclear stress test which revealed anterior wall ischemia. She was referred for cardiac catheterization.
Right radial artery and right antecubital vein access were obtained for the left and right heart catheterization (LHC and RHC). Coronary angiography revealed coronary arteries without the disease (Figure , Video ). After the right heart catheterization was completed, the patient started complaining of chest pain associated with ST-segment elevation in leads II and aVF on the monitor. The patient was uncomfortable and hypertensive. She was started on intravenous nitroglycerin which did not relieve her chest pain nor the ST-segment elevation noted in the inferior leads. An emergent echocardiogram was performed and did not show any pericardial effusion.
Given the persistent symptoms and ST-segment changes in the inferior leads, a decision was made to interrogate the right coronary artery again. Right coronary angiography was performed revealing severe spams from the proximal segment to the mid-vessel with no flow distally (Video ).
Intracoronary nitroglycerin and nitroprusside were administered with no significant improvement. The patient was then started on nicardipine intravenously to control her blood pressure, and the decision was made to proceed with mechanical intervention. A 2.5 mm semi-compliant balloon was advanced into the right coronary artery and multiple inflations were performed. Intravascular ultrasound was performed revealing a 4 mm reference vessel size without plaque, thrombus, or dissection.
An intra-aortic balloon pump was inserted to augment diastolic coronary filling; however, the patient continued to have severe retrosternal chest pain accompanied by ST-segment elevation and continued evidence of spasm.
After waiting for several minutes, a decision was made to place coronary stents to combat