A 43-year-old Sri Lankan male presented to a tertiary care hospital of Sri Lanka (SL) in January 2019 with recurrent episodes of early morning dizzy spells of six-month duration and a history of resistant hypertension and intra-abdominal malignancy for which he received several types of treatment abroad and locally until 3 months before.
He started to experience recurrent episodes of early morning dizzy spells which were associated with excessive hunger, sweating, and palpitations that were resolving with a sugary drink or food in July 2018. These episodes were confirmed to be hypoglycemia at a local hospital with positive Whipple's triad while awaiting surgery for the aforementioned malignancy. There was some improvement of these symptoms after resection of the tumor; hence, no further evaluation was performed. However, hypoglycemia symptoms recurred in September 2019 and gradually progressed thereafter with increasing frequency and severity, up until 2 weeks, when he started to develop episodes of disorientation and confusion, which prompted him to seek medical attention. There were no episodes of coma or seizures to report, and he denied symptoms of overt liver or renal failure apart from the loss of appetite. He neither had features of clinical depression nor history to suggest abuse of oral hypoglycemic agents, insulin, recreational drugs, or alcohol. He was off from any medication over 3 months before the admission.
His past medical history revealed poorly controlled hypertension since mid-2017 which was not properly controlled as he went for employment abroad. According to his medical records, he admitted to a hospital abroad in January 2018, with subacute onset moderate to severe retrosternal chest pain with difficulty in breathing. Additionally, he complained of progressive abdominal distension, nonspecific abdominal pain, significant loss of appetite, loss of weight of 2 months, and chronic watery stools without blood or mucus discharge of similar duration. He also had recurrent nonspecific headaches and palpitations but no episodes of flushing. Examination findings on admission recorded