A 62-year-old female non-smoker presented in July 2005 with a hard palate lesion on the left side that she had been aware of for six months and was gradually increasing in size and associated with left otalgia and left cheek pain. There was no dysphagia, no neck mass, and no weight loss or loss of appetite. Other ear, nose, and throat (ENT) history was unremarkable.
On oral cavity examination, there was a left hard palate lesion of approximately 2 × 2 cm that appeared ulcerative and bled easily. Other ENT examination results were normal. The patient underwent left incisional biopsy of the hard palate mass, which suggested adenoid cystic carcinoma, and computed tomography (CT) of the chest, abdomen, and pelvis revealed no metastases.
The patient was scheduled for left inferior maxillectomy and the insertion of a prosthesis, and the final histopathology results confirmed the diagnosis of adenoid cystic carcinoma. Postoperatively, the patient received radiotherapy of 66 GY per 33 fractions. No postoperative radiological imaging was found for this patient because the procedure and treatment were performed outside the hospital.
The patient again presented at our ENT clinic in May 2011 with a tongue lesion on the right side, as shown in Figure , which she had been aware of for approximately one month without any history of dysphagia, dyspnea, or neck mass. On physical examination, the patient looked cachectic and depressed. Tongue examination revealed a tongue mass on the right side measuring 2 × 1 cm and involving the base of the tongue but not crossing the midline, which was hard on palpitation. Neck examination revealed no remarkable findings and other ENT examinations were normal. CT scanning of the neck revealed an exophytic tongue mass of approximately 2 × 2 cm on the right side. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) revealed a lesion signal on the surface of the tongue on the right side that was confined to the intrinsic muscle fiber, with no evidence of lingual septum, root of the tongue, or bone infiltration involvement