A 68-year-old man presented to our institution. He previously underwent laparoscopic intersphincteric resection of the rectum with diverting loop ileostomy for lower rectal cancer at the age of 56. The immediate postoperative course was uneventful. A pathological examination revealed that the patient had T1, N1a, M0, Stage IIIA rectal adenocarcinoma. He did not receive adjuvant chemotherapy, and there was no recurrence of cancer during the follow-up period. However, soon after surgery, he developed an anastomotic stenosis requiring repeated endoscopic balloon dilatation.
His loop stoma was not reversed because these treatments were unsuccessful. Therefore, the surgeon proposed surgical resection of the anastomosis, but the patient did not agree to undergo permanent colostomy. Consequently, he had lived with loop ileostomy since undergoing surgery.
Twelve years postoperatively, he felt swelling and pain in the scrotum. He was seen by a local physician and diagnosed with a perineal abscess. He was referred to a urologist at our hospital for treatment. Computed tomography (CT) scans revealed a low-density area and air-fluid level in the perianal region (Fig. ), which was consistent with the signs of a perianal abscess. Drainage was performed, and the abscess was resolved. The urologist was concerned about the cause of the perineal abscess, and anastomotic complications were considered to be associated with the abscess. The patient was then referred to the department of surgery for further evaluation and treatment.
During examinations, we found that the patient did not have a significant medical history, including inflammatory bowel disease. He denied having any allergies. He had undergone surgery for an inguinal hernia and duodenal ulcer. He quit smoking after undergoing rectal cancer surgery. He took oral antibiotics after the perineal abscess was drained; otherwise, he denied taking any routine medications.
He was 161 cm in height and 50 kg in weight, and his body mass index was 19 kg/m2. A physical examination revealed a well