A 59-year-old African American male with a medical history of hypertension and abdominal aortic dissection presented to our medical clinic complaining of back pain for one month. He described it as dull, non-radiating, and with no associated motor or sensory weakness. The patient denied shortness of breath, chest pain, productive cough, weight loss, night sweats, or loss of appetite. Physical examination was unremarkable. The patient reported a 10-year pack smoking history. One year prior to the current presentation, he was admitted to our hospital with severe stabbing abdominal pain radiating to the back. Computed tomographic (CT) angiography was done which showed an abdominal aortic dissection extending from thoracic aorta to left common iliac artery that was managed conservatively with tight blood pressure control. The patient admitted to not having any follow-up imaging since discharge from the hospital.
A CT scan of the abdomen and pelvis was ordered to evaluate the abdominal aortic dissection as the cause of his back pain. The results showed a stable long segment type B dissection of the descending thoracic aorta extending into the left common iliac artery. An incidental finding of a large lobulated pleural-based mass was also seen in the lower lobe of the left lung. A CT scan of the chest with contrast was ordered for better visualization of the mass, which again identified a large lobulated pleural-based mass in the posterior mediastinum measuring 21.5 x 9 x 10.2 cm (Figure ).
A US-guided biopsy of the lung mass was done which showed a poorly differentiated malignant neoplasm with a predominantly spindle cell pattern and epithelioid features, consistent with spindle cell carcinoma. Immunohistochemical (IHC) analysis was performed, which was positive for programmed death-ligand 1 (PD-L1) with a tumor proportion score (TPS) of 85 - 90% (Figure ).
A bone scan and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the abdomen and pelvis were done to determine the staging. A bone scan