A 22-year-old Sri Lankan woman was referred from the orthopedics unit to the endocrinology unit, National Hospital of Sri Lanka, for further evaluation of recurrent femur fractures. She first experienced a right sided subtrochanteric fracture following a low trauma injury at the age of 20 years (), for which she underwent internal fixation. Thereafter, she experienced a left intertrochanteric femur fracture at the age of 22 years, 2 months prior to the current presentation.
She had an interesting past medical history. She was diagnosed to have a left side nephroblastoma at the age of 8 years, for which she underwent left side radical nephrectomy followed by chemotherapy. Thereafter, at the age of 14 years, she developed a right sided facial swelling and was found to have a maxillary tumor which was described during the surgery as a well-circumscribed mass lesion in the left maxilla, eroding the anterior wall of maxilla and lateral nasal wall. She underwent partial maxillectomy for this, and histology revealed features suggestive of fibrous dysplasia.
She did not have a history of chronic steroid use, hypogonadism, hyperthyroidism, rheumatoid arthritis, and exposure to cigarette smoking to suggest secondary causes for osteoporosis. She had neither any features of malabsorption nor inadequate exposure to sunlight to suggest a vitamin D deficiency causing these fractures. The histology of bone biopsies was negative for metastatic deposits.
She did not have a family history of hyperparathyroidism, renal, or uterine tumors. There was no past history or family history suggestive of MEN 1. Her general and systemic examinations were normal apart from the healing fracture sites.
Her investigation findings are summarized in .
Her investigations revealed high total calcium and urinary calcium excretion, with low serum phosphate level. She was found to have a vitamin D deficiency, which was corrected by vitamin D replacement. As high calcium and low phosphate were suggestive of a primary hyperparathyroidism, intact parathyroid hormone (PTH) was done after correcting vitamin D level, which was found to be