Mr P was a married man in his 40s with one child. He had served in the UK army and was deployed to the Bosnian conflict in the mid-1990s. During his deployment he was stationed at a morgue that had been set up to aid the identification of bodies recovered from a mass burial site. He described how the morgue contained a large number of bodies in various states of decomposition, with varying degrees of physical trauma. He reported re-experiencing fragmented intrusive images of the morgue and daily emotionally distressing nightmares of which he could not recall the content. He experienced high levels of anxiety that triggered his dissociative symptoms. These appeared to function as a coping strategy to avoid distressing emotions connected to his memory of the morgue. Other avoidance symptoms included feeling detached from people around him and feeling emotionally numb. Mr P avoided family occasions and busy places which could trigger his hyper-arousal symptoms and had never spoken to anyone about his experiences. He reported coping historically through the use of alcohol to block out his emotions. His avoidance behaviours had maintained his PTSD symptoms.
At the start of therapy sessions, Mr P was reluctant to talk about his past experiences stating he only felt able to discuss vague details about his intrusive memories. Mr P attempted to use physical objects such as stones and leaves, or his e-cigarette, as grounding strategies in the clinic room. However, he also reported feeling unable to tolerate any emotions connected to the events and found it difficult to identify peri-traumatic cognitions. Mr P appeared to experience intrusions of one particular fragmented image and could not recall any other contextual information from before or after this moment.
In both cases Mr C and Mr P experienced difficulties in engaging with traditional methods of imaginal reliving and prolonged exposure, due to high levels of avoidance and low thresholds for dissociation, and subsequently had difficulties accessing their c