A 52-year-old male with a 30-year history of chronic low back pain of unknown etiology presented to a rheumatology clinic. He noted low back pain associated with morning stiffness that worsened throughout the day. He also described increased difficulty with ambulation associated with bilateral paresthesia of the lower extremities, saddle paresthesia, and increased urinary urgency. His past medical history was significant for hypertension, hyperlipidemia, and tonsillectomy as a child. He had no known history of trauma or fractures. He smoked for more than 30 years but denied any alcohol or drug use. His physical examination revealed severely limited range of motion of the cervical and lumbar spine with a modified Schober’s test of 2.4 cm. He also had significant weakness in his hip flexors with decreased patellar reflexes. He was positive for human leukocyte antigen (HLA) B27. Radiographs of the lumbar spine showed sacroiliitis and syndesmophytes in the lumbar spine. He was diagnosed with ankylosing spondylitis based on these results. He was also clinically diagnosed with cauda equina syndrome though a lumbar spine magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) done later did not show any cord compression. The recommendation was to start treatment with adalimumab pending the results of tuberculosis screening.
While awaiting initiation of therapy, the patient had worsening lower extremity weakness and was admitted three weeks after presentation to the rheumatology clinic. He was afebrile on admission. His initial physical exam showed bilateral lower extremity weakness that was worse in the right lower extremity with bilateral diminished reflexes. His initial labs showed an elevated C-reactive protein (CRP) of 48 mg/L and no leukocytosis. A repeat lumbar spine MRI in the hospital showed no evidence of cord compression. His thoracic spine MRI, however, demonstrated T7-T8 discitis with concern for osteomyelitis but no pathological fracture. He underwent emergent surgical decompression of the thoracic spine from T7 to T10 (Figures -). A swab of the