A 71-year-old male presented to an outside institution in 2015 for evaluation of slowly enlarging bilateral cervical lymphadenopathy, parotid swelling, and night sweats. Medical history was significant for melanoma removed from the bridge of his nose in 2015, and active smoking for over 40 years.
During his initial workup at the OSH, computed tomography (CT) imaging showed multiple enlarged bilateral parotid lesions, scattered enlarged level I and II nodes, and upper mediastinal lymph nodes. He underwent ultrasound-guided fine needle aspiration (FNA) and core needle biopsy of a large left neck lymph node measuring 4.0 × 1.9 cm. Cytology was consistent with WT. Additionally, a level IA neck dissection was performed. Pathology revealed WT and no evidence of malignancy or lymphoma. Six-month follow-up imaging showed stable appearance of the bilateral parotid masses and cervical lymph nodes; however, there was interval enlargement of right upper mediastinal paratracheal lymph nodes.
He relocated in September 2016 and transitioned care to our institution. Thoracic surgery performed endoscopic bronchial ultrasound and transbronchial biopsies of the right paratracheal node. Cytopathology revealed absence of malignant cells. Flow cytometry was negative for lymphoma. He elected for close surveillance with serial imaging in lieu of mediastinoscopy. Six-month follow up imaging showed stable size of the mediastinal lymph nodes and slight enlargement of a left neck lymph node () and he was subsequently referred to the Department of Otolaryngology.
Physical examination revealed bilateral enlarged parotid glands and bulky cervical lymphadenopathy slightly larger on the right. Facial nerve function was intact bilaterally. The patient was counseled on smoking cessation. He was discussed at our multidisciplinary tumor board. Given the progression of cervical disease, he underwent level II lymph node dissection with removal of a large nodal conglomerate and culture of cystic contents. Histopathology once again confirmed WT (). Culture and lymphoma workup were negative. In follow-up, he had quit smoking and elected to continue close observation.