A 26-year-old male patient with a past medical history of asthma and marijuana use presented to the emergency room with a one-week history of shortness of breath. The patient believed his shortness of breath was associated with his asthma and he did not seek help earlier. The patient reported having exertional dyspnea, orthopnea, paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea, and blood-tinged sputum upon further questioning. He denied chest pain, palpitations, cough, fever or dizziness. The patient stated that he has moved recently from Washington State and is trying to establish care with a physician locally. The patient denies any surgeries, family history of medical conditions but endorses occasional alcohol use, daily marijuana use and no tobacco use. The patient lives with his sister and works as a cook at a local restaurant. He is sexually active with women, but not at the time of presentation. The patient states he has previously prescribed some medications but does not remember what they were, and reports that he has not been taking them. On physical exam, he appeared to be in moderate distress. His vital signs were abnormal with an elevated blood pressure of 182/110, increased pulse at 120/minute and increased respiratory rate at 24/minute with use of accessory respiratory muscles noted. The patient's body mass index was 23.4. Pulmonary examination revealed scattered wheezes in all lung fields and no crackles. The cardiovascular exam revealed a non-displaced point of maximal impulse. Cardiac auscultation was noted for tachycardia with no murmurs, rubs, or gallops. Examination of the head and neck showed dry mucous membranes, with minimal jugular venous distension. The gastrointestinal exam was largely normal with no hepatomegaly, splenomegaly, or tenderness to palpation. There was one plus edema noted on the extremities during the musculoskeletal exam. Laboratory investigations done showed that his creatinine at this time was 3.4 mg/dl. Further workup for his shortness of breath revealed elevated brain