A 66-year-old male presented with the left cervical and submaxillary lymph node enlargement with size of 30 mm × 30 mm. The following lymph node biopsy was completed and the pathological evaluation showed reactive lymphoid hyperplasia characterized by vascular, atrophic germinal lesions with surrounding concentric “onion skin” layers of lymphocytes (Fig. ), defined as the hyaline vascular variant of CD. He denied weight loss, lymphadenopathy, tuberculosis, diabetes mellitus and hypertension. He gave no history of bone pain and drug abuse. The bone marrow (BM) cytology indicated no clonal plasma cell infiltration. Thereafter the patient was treated with irradiation dose of 30 Gy in 10 fractions with clinical response. The clinical evaluation remained stable in annual follow-up visits. In the 4th visit, the patient was diagnosed in an outside hospital with 2-diabetic mellitus on basis of increased blood glucose, C peptide release test and oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT). The blood glucose was well-controlled by the hypoglycemic and diet therapy for three years when he presented to the previous hospital with progressive hand-foot numbness spreading from the proximal extremes to distal ends. The electromyography test confirmed the hampered nerve conduction velocity of bilateral ulnar, median and peroneal nerves. The cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) biochemistry from lumbar puncture indicated the slightly elevated protein (1.1 g/L, normal, 0.1~ 0.4 g/L) with normal cell count. The blood monoclonal protein level and bone marrow cytology was normal. Based on the resultant diagnosis of chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy (CIDP), the patient was treated with daily intravenous pulse methylprednisolone therapy of 1.0 g for three consecutive days. Due to the minor clinical response, the diabetic peripheral neuropathy was suspected with following insulin injection and oral mecobalamin therapy. However, the manifestation of hand-foot numbness remained constant. One and half years after the first sign of numbness, the muscular dystrophy of palms was noticed with finger fine hypoactivity. In the next 2 years