Our patient was a 74-year-old man of Middle Eastern ethnicity with a previous medical history including hypertension, benign prostatic hyperplasia, polycythemia vera, and duodenal ulcers. He received metoprolol (100 mg daily) as well as aspirin (75 mg daily), had a history of tobacco smoking, but ceased tobacco use 15 years prior to the current admission. He did not consume alcohol. He was born in Iraq and arrived in Sweden 2002. He was previously employed as a medical secretary but he had retired at the time of admission. His previous social history is largely unknown, but he was married, and he had three children (two sons and one daughter) according to previous medical files.
In the early spring of 2019, he developed dyspnea and flank pain, and following investigations at a secondary care institution, a subsequent radiological computed tomography (CT) examination revealed at least six lesions in his liver, of which the largest deposit measured 13 mm. In addition, a 50 mm large soft tissue expansion in conjunction to his chest wall with engagement and destruction of the eighth rib was observed. In his lungs, 13 nodular lesions were detected of which the largest measured 8 mm. A bone metastasis to the right acetabular region was also visualized, in addition to a 10 mm large lesion in his left adrenal gland. The latter nodule was present already on a radiological examination performed 12 years earlier and found stationary with no increase in overall size; it was therefore believed to be benign. To summarize, the lesions observed were highly suspicious for metastatic deposits from a CUP. An ultrasonography-guided core-needle biopsy of the chest wall lesion was performed, and a diagnosis of metastatic NEC was rendered. The material was immediately sent for second opinion consultation at our tertiary unit.
The histopathological examination revealed a tumor with a predominant solid growth pattern, diffusely infiltrating the surrounding fibrotic stroma (Fig. a). The tumor cells displayed round to slightly polygonal nuclei, focally pleomorphic, with