A 23-year-old man (weight 65 kg, height 175 cm, and BSA 1.8 m2) with a diagnosis of primitive right atrial enlargement from foetal age was referred to our Centre for cardiological evaluation. Cardiac examination showed increased heart size on percussion and a grade II/VI Levine systolic murmur. No significant pathological findings were found on pulmonary examination. Electrocardiography showed a regular sinus rhythm with a rate of approximately 60 beats/min associated with an abnormal morphology and duration of P wave (enlargement of P wave with duration of 130 msec), together with a low amplitude of QRS complexes in the limb leads. All routine laboratory studies were within normal limits. Chest radiography showed an abnormal cardiac silhouette with increased convexity in the lower half of the right cardiac border and cardiomegaly ().
Transthoracic two-dimensional echocardiography demonstrated a huge right atrium of about 6.2 cm and a volume of 230 ml/m2, with a thick smoke pattern and mild tricuspid regurgitation. The pulmonary arterial pressure was normal (). The tricuspid valve was normal without significant annular dilation. No stenosis or abnormal displacement of the tricuspid valve leaflets was detected. No significant regurgitation of the tricuspid valve was found despite a partial distortion of the anterior leaflet and compression of the right ventricle inflow. The right ventricle appeared small and compressed anteriorly by the right atrium (area of RV: 11 cm2).
Cardiac magnetic resonance imaging showed a marked right atriomegaly (right atrium area: 66.50 cm2, volume: 220 ml/m2) and normal size of the left atrium (left atrium area: 7.02 cm2). The right ventricle was regular in size and global contractility but was partially compressed and dislocated posteriorly, due to the massive enlargement of the right atrium. The left ventricle was regular in dimension, thickness of the wall, and global/segmental contractility (FE VS = 61%). No evident transvalvular jets or areas of late gadolinium enhancement