An 85-year-old female with a past medical history of diabetes mellitus, hypertension, and hyperlipidemia underwent surgical consultation in October 2015 for an incidentally found right foot mass subsequent to an elective gynecologic procedure. The patient first noticed a small lesion on the dorsum of her right foot approximately 12 years ago. She never sought medical attention for this slowly growing and asymptomatic lesion. However, this lesion had been growing more rapidly and had become foul smelling over the past 3 weeks. She denied any pain, paresthesias, weight loss, or recent trauma to the foot. She also denied any history of smoking or significant sun exposure. Her only surgical history included a recent total abdominal hysterectomy and left salpingo-ophorectomy. On physical examination, she was a well-nourished Caucasian female who was found to have a large exophytic, fungating 8.0 × 8.0 × 0.6 cm malodorous mass on the dorsum of her right foot (Figure ). This mass was insensate to light touch with no surrounding erythema. She had palpable dorsalis pedis and posterior tibial pulses with full range of motion of that foot. The left lower extremity was benign in examination, with no masses or lesions. A thorough dermatologic examination did not reveal any other concerning lesions. A punch biopsy of this mass was consistent with BCC. Subsequent magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) showed a large soft tissue irregularity surrounding the second to fifth extensor tendons (Figure ). Given these findings, the patient underwent a wide local excision of this BCC with full-thickness skin graft for coverage.
The lesion was excised in its entirety with a 5-mm circumferential margin beyond the extent of visible tumor. This incision was carried down directly to the fascia overlying the extensor digitorum longus tendons. Intraoperative pathologic evaluation noted a negative deep margin; therefore, resection of extensor tendons was not required. The specimen was sent to pathology en bloc revealing an 8.2 × 6