A 51-year-old black woman with an 18-pack-year smoking history presented to our institution with a 3-month history of a progressively productive cough unresponsive to antibiotics. In addition, she had dyspnea on exertion and a 25-pound weight loss. Her past medical history included a duodenal ulcer resulting in a perforation which required exploratory laparotomy 2 years prior to presentation. Other history included subarachnoid hemorrhage requiring craniotomy with hematoma evacuation roughly 20 years prior to presentation, as well as hypertension. Her family history included her mother being diagnosed with ovarian cancer at the age of 54. The patient is married and worked full-time at the front desk for the past 30 years for a shipping company. She reported alcohol intake of two drinks per occasion twice weekly. She denied the use of any recreational drugs. She denied any environmental exposures. Medications that the patient was receiving at the time of diagnosis included amlodipine and albuterol.
The patient underwent computed tomography (CT) of the chest, which revealed a 5.3 × 6-cm right hilar mass that was occluding the right upper lobe bronchus with narrowing of the SVC. The SVC remained radiographically patent (Fig. ). The patient’s vital signs included afebrile temperature of 37.0 °C, cardiac pulse of 100 beats per minute, and oxygen saturation of 96% on room air. Her physical examination at that time was without any clinical signs of venous congestion. She had no facial plethora and had flat neck veins and no signs of jugular vein distention. She had decreased breath sounds in the right upper and middle lung fields. The skin of the neck and breast was without any pitting or edema. Neurologically, the patient was fully functional with cranial nerves II–XII intact and 5/5 strength in the upper and lower extremities bilaterally. All laboratory test results, including complete blood count and comprehensive metabolic panel, were within normal limits.
Two weeks after the patient’s