A 35-year-old female was admitted to our outpatients' clinic with a compliant of an eight-month history of right heel pain which had increased gradually in the past two months. The pain of the patient often occurred at night and it was not related with daily or sporting activities and most commonly felt at rest. Her symptoms started insidiously and she did not mention any trauma. She had been smoking 20 cigarettes per day for 10 years, and she did not suffer from any medical condition. Furthermore, no hereditary disease was found in the patient's family history.
Physical examination revealed no abnormal findings. Her blood tests were all normal, including all the inflammatory markers. The patient underwent plain radiograph examination and a 21-millimeter-diameter cystic lesion was observed in the long axis of the calcaneus. The magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) examination was applied for the confirmation and it showed 22 × 20 mm intraosseous cystic lesion at the posterior part of the calcaneus which revealed hypointense signal on T1-weighted images and hyperintense signal on T2-weighted images (). The contrast-enhanced MRI was not available for this patient.
Although the lesion was radiologically benign, extended curettage and iliac bone grafting were planned to exclude the malignancy risk that may be caused by smoking history. The operation was performed under spinal anesthesia. After bone grafting from the right ilium was completed, tourniquet was applied to the right thigh. A lateral approach to the calcaneus was used. After opening a 10 × 10 mm valve from the lateral aspect of the calcaneus, the cyst was excised and the cyst walls were debrided by burr. After preparation of the area, the cavity was filled with bone grafts.
Microscopic examination revealed compact hypercellular areas with spindle cells which show nuclear palisading around fibrillary process in some areas. There was no mitotic activity. Diffuse expression of S-100 protein was observed with immunohistochemical staining, and Ki-67 proliferation index was observed