A transsexual 35-year-old Caucasian male without known relevant medical history of cardiac disease presented to the emergency room with a sudden onset of typical anginal chest pain. Physical examination revealed a hemodynamically stable patient with resting pulse of 70/min and blood pressure of 110/70 mmHg, with no signs of acute cardiopulmonary decompensation. Cardiac examination was uneventful with normal heart sounds without pathological murmurs. Respiratory, abdomen, and neurological examinations remained normal. Active smoking accumulating to 20 pack years and a history of daily alcohol consumption were significant risk factors. Drug history revealed a hormonal therapy with intramuscular testosterone undecanoate for gender conversion over the past 6 years, with an initial dosage of 1000 mg per month over a period of 1 year from 2011 to 2012 and later at a dose of 1000 mg every 3 months to date. An electrocardiogram showed sinus rhythm with ST-Segment elevation in the inferior leads ().
An emergency coronary angiography revealed normal coronary arteries with an occlusion of the distal right coronary artery (). The appearance of the remaining coronary arteries was smooth, not indicative of an advanced atherosclerotic coronary artery disease. We suspected a thromboembolic origin as the primary cause of the myocardial infarction by the appearance of the coronaries. Recanalization of the vessel was achieved by catheter-driven direct thrombectomy using an aspiration catheter. This was followed by intracardiac lysis with 20 mg tissue plasminogen activator, Alteplase, and subsequently the intravenous glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitor Tirofiban. A short episode of reperfusion-related ventricular fibrillation and subsequent third-degree atrioventricular block (av-block) were overcome by defibrillation and intravenous administration of 2 mg Atropine, respectively. Finally, a successful recanalization was achieved with TIMI-3 flow () with immediate resolution of the patient's symptoms. A stent implantation was not necessary. Cardiac biomarkers were subsequently elevated with Troponin I up to a maximum of 46.63 ng/ml (Reference range: 0.00–0.06 ng/ml). Ech