A 62-year-old female with a past medical history of hypertension, dyslipidemia, hypothyroidism, and 30 years of cigarette smoking presented with worsening shortness of breath and foreign body sensation over two days duration. Symptoms were typically worse at night and on laying flat. On exam, she had a faint stridor and was slightly tachypneic with a respiratory rate of 22 breaths per minute. CT of the neck was performed, revealing soft tissue prominence within her cervical trachea.
Thoracic surgery explored the neck due to the presence of stridor but that did not reveal any extratracheal abnormal tissue and no apparent lymph nodes in the area. She improved with steroid treatment only to relapse with the same symptoms a few days after discharge when the steroids were tapered down. After multiple examinations, and several treatments for COPD exacerbation, the patient was referred to the pulmonology clinic.
Bronchoscopy showed that the trachea was heavily studded and infiltrated with abnormal tissue on all walls: from the vocal cords and subglottic area, down to the carina and into the proximal mainstem bronchi (Figures -). Biopsy of the multiple areas showed squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) with supportive histochemistry. Her Program Death Ligand molecule 1 expression (PD-1) was low at 20%. Esophagogastroduodenoscopy (EGD) was performed next and showed normal esophageal mucosa throughout and no evidence of any fistulas. The staging process was initiated, with a PET/CT scan only showing increased uptake at the site of the locally advanced disease confined to the airways. A brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) was negative for metastasis. Her case was discussed in the multidisciplinary tumor board. The tumor was considered unresectable due to the apparent involvement of the entire tracheal length. Given the need to irradiate most of the mediastinum to cover all the tumor area, radiation therapy toxicity was considered too high. Thus, plans were made to re-evaluate the disease extent after two to three cycles