A 71-year-old female with a pulmonary metastasis from primary sigmoid colon cancer presented for video-assisted thoracoscopic LUL lobectomy. She underwent resection of sigmoid colon cancer (StageIIA T3N0M0) five years previously. She did not receive adjuvant chemotherapy. Recent computed tomography scan revealed a mass in the left upper lobe of the lung, and she was admitted to undergo video-assisted thoracoscopic LUL lobectomy. She had a history of hypertension and osteoporosis, treated with raloxifen, alfacalcidol, fexofenadine hydrochloride, pseudoephedrine and esomeprazole magnesium hydrate. She smoked two packs of cigarettes per day for 45 years. Physical examination on admission was unremarkable. Preoperative electrocardiogram showed sinus rhythm with an incomplete right bundle branch block. After placement of an epidural catheter between the fifth and sixth vertebrae, general anesthesia was induced with remifentanil and propofol. Tracheal intubation was accomplished using rocuronium bromide. Combined epidural and general anesthesia was maintained with remifentanil, desflurane and ropivacaine. The LUL lobectomy proceeded without difficulty with an operating time of 157 min. No arrhythmias or severe hypotension were detected during the surgery. She was transferred to a general ward after extubation in the operating room.
The postoperative course was uncomplicated with no episodes of atrial fibrillation on the first postoperative day. On the evening of the second postoperative day, she was seen to lean suddenly to the left after urinating. She developed left hemiparesis, right conjugate deviation and dysarthria. She underwent emergency magnetic resonance imaging after immediate removal of the epidural catheter. Cerebral magnetic resonance angiography revealed cessation of blood flow in the right internal carotid artery (Fig. ). An acute cerebral infarction was diagnosed and she was transferred to another hospital to receive intravascular therapy. Initially, 4000 units of heparin were given intravenously. Four hours after onset of arterial occlusion, extensive dark brown thrombi were removed though the intravascular catheter, and cerebral perfusion was reestablished. She received protamine at the end of procedure. Antico