A 42-year-old man with history of HIV, on highly active antiretroviral therapy, and 7.5 pack-years of smoking, initially presented for perianal mass excision. The perianal lesion was verrucous, circumferential, and extensive throughout the anorectal perineum, causing high clinical suspicion for carcinoma. The mass was excised and pathology diagnosis confirmed that the specimen was positive for squamous cell carcinoma. HPV molecular testing was not performed at that time.
Subsequently, two months after excision, the patient presented to the emergency room with severe perianal pain accompanied by serosanguinous to purulent discharge. Physical exam revealed ulceration along the prior excision site and a prominent right inguinal lymph node that had enlarged over the preceding weeks. In addition, computerized tomography (CT) of the pelvis suggested multiple areas of deep fluid collection and abscess formation. The patient was admitted to the hospital for intravenous antibiotic treatment and monitoring of infection in the setting of AIDS (absolute T cell count 239/mm3 with 8% T helper cells; viral load 116 copies per mL). He was also diagnosed with active hepatitis B during this admission (viral load >501,000,000 IU/ mL). Fine needle aspiration of the enlarged right inguinal lymph node demonstrated malignant cells, consistent with metastatic squamous cell carcinoma. The patient began treatment with chemotherapy (mitomycin/capecitabine) and radiation therapy and was discharged home with a plan to continue outpatient therapy.
Six months after the excision procedure, the patient returned to the emergency room with shortness of breath and was found to have new deep vein thrombosis on Doppler imaging. CT angiography of the chest ruled out pulmonary embolism but instead revealed eleven pulmonary nodules ranging from 3mm to 12mm in greatest dimension, scattered throughout both lungs and raising clinical concern for distant metastasis (A,C,E). The patient eventually agreed to interventional radiology-guided biopsy. Multiple nodules were noted to have increased in size over a one-month time interval (B,D,