A 46-year-old Javanese woman presented with urinary incontinence following an abdominal hysterectomy with bilateral salpingectomy 3 months earlier. She is a housewife with no history of routine drug use and no prior history of hypertension, diabetes, allergies, or other chronic disease. She does not smoke tobacco and does not consume alcohol.
A physical examination revealed that her general condition was good and her vital signs were: blood pressure 112/74 mmHg, heart rate 89 beats per minute, respiratory rate 18 times per minute, and temperature 36.6 °C. There were no abnormalities in her chest and abdomen, or in musculoskeletal and neurological examinations. In a genitalia examination using a speculum, we identified fistulae above her vagina wall that were 1 cm in size. All laboratory findings (that is, complete blood count, liver functions, renal functions, and urine analysis) were within normal limits.
After discussion with our patient regarding the risks and benefits of an open abdominal procedure and laparoscopic approach, we discussed the similarities and differences between the two procedures were her. We chose surgical management using laparoscopic approach with the considerations that it could facilitate precise dissection, offer good visualization, and be minimally invasive, thereby enabling faster recovery.
Our patient was placed in the lithotomy position and received general anesthesia. A cystoscopy was performed to confirm the fistulae orifice and a stent was inserted into the fistulae tract from her bladder to her vagina. A tamponade was inserted into her vagina up to the vaginal apex, to be able to identify the vagina and prevent loss of pneumoperitoneum. A transperitoneal approach was performed with trocars distributed as follows: The camera was placed through a 12 mm port with 30° down lens located superior to the umbilicus. Two ports for the surgeon were placed on the right side (Fig. ).
She had adhesions; therefore, adhesiolysis was performed, using a combination of sharp and blunt dissection to expose the vaginal stump and the superior aspect of her bladder (