This 54-year-old female was referred to the Neurofibromatosis outpatient clinic of the Oral and Craniomaxillofacial Surgery Department for treatment of numerous cutaneous tumors that preferentially covered her trunk and extremities. On admission, the patient described the tumors to be painless and disfiguring. Besides the cutaneous tumors the patient sought advice for treatment of a painful region of her left small finger (Figure 1 ). For some time the ulnar side of the distal phalanx of this finger had become very touch-sensitive. There was neither a tumor visible nor any other pathological alteration of the skin. However, the finger could not be examined by palpation. The suspected diagnosis was initially a glomus tumor [] or a non-palpable nodular PNF.
MRI at 3T revealed numerous, popcorn-like, contrast-absorbing, hyperintense formations on T2-weighted images, up to 1.2 x 1.9 cm² in size located on the palmar side of the left hand (Figure 2 ). These small lesions mainly affected the metacarpal bones II and III. MRI also showed a sharply defined lesion of max. 1 cm in diameter in the subcutaneous layer at the level of the radiocarpal joint and distal to first digit that reached to the tendons of the extensor musculature. The bony structures showed a homogeneous signal. The findings were interpreted as disseminated subcutaneous and cutaneous neurofibromas of the entire left hand. Structures were found on the distal phalanx of the left small finger whose intensity pattern corresponded to that of the other lesions.
During surgery for the excision and vaporization of numerous neurofibromas of the trunk and extremities, the pain sensitive finger region was also explored. After incision of the skin, no tumor was visible. Therefore, a circumscribed subcutaneous excision was taken as a tissue sample and examined histologically.
The tissue findings confirmed cutaneous neurofibromas for the numerous nodules excised from the trunk and extremities. Surprisingly, there was no evidence for