A thirty-eight-year-old male with a history of vape use was admitted for massive hemoptysis of about 500 ml on two episodes. Nebulized and intravenous tranexamic acid was given. Bedside bronchoscopy localized the lesion on the left lung with polyp-like lesion versus an abnormal vessel on the left main bronchus about 2 cm from the carina (). Blood clots were also noted proximal to the polyp-like lesion suggestive of the primary site of active bleeding (). Endobronchial blocker was placed on the left main bronchus followed by the instillation of endobronchial epinephrine. Bronchial artery angiography showed collateral flow from the right bronchial artery to the left bronchial artery supplying the presumed bronchial polyp or abnormal blood vessel (Figures and ). Gelfoam slurry embolization was performed on the right bronchial artery with follow-up angiography demonstrating occlusion of the collateral vessels from the right bronchial artery. Procedures on the left bronchial artery were aborted due to acute upward angulation of the vessel and the risk of embolizing the anterior spinal artery. Following the successful right bronchial collateral artery embolization, endobronchial bleeding stopped, and the patient was successfully extubated. A week after, repeat chest computed tomography (CT) revealed bilateral pulmonary embolism (PE). The patient had another episode of massive hemoptysis with almost one liter of expectorated blood. Left bronchial artery embolization with Gelfoam slurry was performed via left brachial artery approach. Multiple bleeding ensued which required fourteen (14) bronchoscopic clearings of airway blood clots via forceps extractions (Figures and ). Pulmonary consolidations on bilateral lungs also developed which were considered to be pulmonary infarctions and/or atelectasis from plugging of airways with blood clots (). The patient's persistent severe hypoxia led to cardiac compromise, and the patient went to pulse electrical activity arrest. Increased positive expiratory pressure (PEEP) in the ventilator also led bilateral pneumothorax requiring bilateral chest tube placement (). Given the severe hypoxia,