Patient 2 (40–45 years old) presented with severe agitation. He was threatening, screaming, scratching, and spitting, and refused a conversation. He thus showed a similar clinical picture as patient 1 but also appeared to experience auditory hallucinations and to actively talk to them. Patient 2 was in a state of poor hygiene. Taking into consideration his manner of response, one could assume that patient 2 has experienced psychiatric treatment in the past. When the nurse asked him if he had any experience with psychiatric medication, he yelled at her and clarified his wish to refuse haloperidol. He seemed to feel especially threatened by the police and the psychiatric staff, not only due to psychotic symptoms but also due to previous aversive experiences with psychiatric treatment. Once again, the staff members involved in the situation discussed the clinical case in a multiprofessional setting and weighed out every possible option. The team suspected that patient 2 suffered from an acute exacerbation of a disorder that persisted for a longer period of time or a psychotic relapse. In this case, the team decided that patient 2—due to his previous aversive experiences—would have extraordinarily suffered from compulsory treatment, which may exacerbate previous traumatic experiences. Also, he calmed down a bit when given a space to withdraw and did not immediately endanger himself or others; however, he remained tense for several days and threw objects whenever members of staff tried to engage him in a conversation or offered oral medication. When left alone, he did not appear aggressive or present improper handling, showed a regular food intake, and welcomed the possibility to smoke. Somewhat later, he was seeking a medical consultation and expressed the need for a low-dosage medication. To this day, 6 years later, he regularly receives outpatient care and short-term crisis intervention treatment on a psychiatric ward, although he has felt threatened and deprived of his identity by the state and the psychiatric system of another city for more