A 69-year-old man presented to our hospital with lung nodules at the right upper and right lower lobes, which were detected at a different institution during an examination for intermittent hemoptysis. The patient's past medical history was significant for hypertension, with a smoking history of 50 pack-years. Physical examination and routine laboratory tests revealed no significant findings. A chest computed tomography (CT) scan revealed a 2.1 × 1.7 cm sized mass in the posterior segment of the right upper lobe (RUL), along with a 3 × 2.3 cm sized mass in the superior segment of the right lower lobe (RLL)(Fig a). The nodule in the RUL was suspected to be primary lung cancer, while the nodule in the RLL was suspected to be a benign neoplasm or double primary lung cancer. Therefore, we performed a staging workup for suspected lung cancer. Positron emission tomography showed increased uptake only in the RUL and RLL (Fig b). Bronchoscopy showed no endobronchial involvement. As the pulmonary function test indicated no contraindication, we recommended surgery because of the possibility of malignancy in each nodule. Thoracoscopic wedge resection was performed with a frozen section for each nodule. The intraoperative frozen section revealed adenocarcinoma with poor differentiation in the RUL and non-small cell lung cancer with very poor differentiation in the RLL. CT findings showed a RUL lesion with spiculated margins and a RLL lesion with well-defined margins. We performed an additional upper lobectomy with mediastinal lymph node dissection after the thoracotomy considering the CT findings and an insufficient wedge resection margin of the RUL. The patient was discharged from the hospital without any complications on postoperative day eight.
The results of the biopsy revealed that despite poor differentiation of the tumor cells, the RUL mass was an adenocarcinoma positive for CK7 and TTF-1 (Fig a,b). The RLL mass was a tumor consisting mostly of cells that morphologically looked like epithelial cells, many of