In 2008, a 24-year-old non-smoking female was admitted to the hospital for right upper limb pain. On examination, she appeared to have a tender fusiform bony-hard swelling of the right upper arm. An X-ray scan showed an extraosseous tumour on the periosteal surface mainly in the mid humerus. A biopsy of the lesion was performed, with the histological result confirming periosteal osteosarcoma diagnosis. Computed tomography (CT) of her thorax and emission computed tomography (ECT) scan demonstrated no metastases. Segmental resection of the proximal periosteal osteosarcoma with internal fixation grafting was performed. The histology report demonstrated the presence of periosteal osteosarcoma. The report indicated that the local excision was complete with wide excision margins. She received adjuvant therapy postoperatively with 4 cycles of a cisplatin and doxorubicin regimen.
We followed the patient every 6 months with routine complete blood counts and liver function, serum alkaline phosphatase, and lactate dehydrogenase level tests, along with X-rays of the right humerus. ECT and CT scans of the chest were performed annually. No signs of recurrence were found through these examinations. However, chest CT found a mass in her left chest for the first time in December 2018. The mass was 5.5 cm, and the mass increased to 6.1 cm half a year later (Fig. a). The patient underwent thoracotomy in June 2019. We found a solitary mass on her diaphragm during the operation. The mass partially involved the left lower lung without involving any other organs, including the oesophagus or chest wall (Fig. b). We removed the tumour that was partially on the left lower lung with sufficient tumour resection margins and repaired the diaphragm defect. The patient was discharged 4 days after surgery. Postoperative histopathology showed a tumour measuring 6 cm. Postoperative pathology revealed that the tumour was mainly distributed in the diaphragm muscle tissue, and the pulmonary membrane of the left lower lung was not invaded (Fig. ). The tumour showed an intermediate grade periosteal osteosarcoma, the same characteristic as the original