A 78-year-old Japanese woman (gravida 10, para 2, abortion 8) had a 10-year history of uterine prolapse but she had no gynecological examination. She had no smoking history and her body mass index was 19.7. She visited our hospital because of a 1-month history of bleeding from an ulcerated lesion on the surface of the prolapsed uterus. Upon examination, the uterine prolapse appeared as complete eversion of the posterior vaginal fornix and was manually irreducible and classified as stage IV according to the Pelvic Organ Prolapse Quantification System []. On the surface of the completely prolapsed uterus, an ulcerated lesion of 3 cm in diameter was observed and a deep-seated induration was felt. A histological biopsy of a mass in the vaginal wall led to a diagnosis of keratinizing squamous cell carcinoma. Magnetic resonance imaging revealed the mass with a depth of 1.6 cm, but the endometrial cavity was not depicted (Fig. ). The mass was located approximately 3 cm from the cervical os with no sign of invasion to adjacent tissue. According to the International Federation of Gynecology and Obstetrics (FIGO) staging system, the tumor was vaginal cancer staged as I, and a fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography/CT revealed no metastases to the lymph nodes or other organs. Although the diagnosis of this case was vaginal cancer, the main tumor was located in the uterine cervix because of the completely prolapsed uterus. Therefore, we considered that it is practical to develop the treatment plan according to the uterine cervical cancer. Because of the patient’s advanced age and the presence of arrhythmia (paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia and paroxysmal atrial fibrillation), she was ineligible for a combination of surgery under general anesthesia and chemotherapy; therefore, RT alone was planned. If EBRT had been administered, radiation dermatitis of the genitalia would have been a concern because the prolapsed uterus would be irradiated. Neither a probe nor a tandem could be inserted