A 54-year-old woman was referred to our tertiary care Head and Neck Surgery clinic for evaluation of a rapidly enlarging left neck mass. She reported the neck mass had developed over the past four months, caused mild discomfort, and had associated unintentional weight-loss. The patient endorsed a remote 20+ year smoking history but denied any family history of head and neck malignancies. Physical exam during this visit revealed an eight-centimeter nodal conglomerate in the left supraclavicular area and diffusely enlarged thyroid gland with a roughly 5 cm right thyroid mass. She had previously undergone fine needle aspiration (FNA) of the neck mass at an outside facility which demonstrated rare degenerated atypical cells suspicious for malignancy, and a positron emission tomography scan (PET) scan with fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) avid lesions in the neck and lungs concerning for metastases, which also showed tracheal deviation secondary to mass effect. Inhouse computed tomography (CT) of her neck showed a necrotic mass, while CT angiography of the chest showed lung lesions consistent with her previous imaging (). Repeat FNA cytology of the supraclavicular mass revealed a poorly differentiated carcinoma. These cells were positive for TTF-1 and PAX8 by immunohistochemistry, and the treatment team continued to suspect a thyroid origin. After consultation with the oncology team, the surgery team and the patient elected for surgical resection of the left neck mass for diagnostic purposes, as well as thyroid surgery for palliation, given the mass effect and tracheal deviation. With diagnostic surgery as the next step, additional thyroid lesion workup such as a thyroid ultrasound, or measurement of her serologic thyroglobulin, anti-thyroglobulin, and calcitonin were not taken at this time. The patient then underwent a left neck dissection, and her left thyroid lobe and isthmus were resected. Additionally, the level 4 supraclavicular mass with multiple surrounding firm, enlarged nodes was resected en bloc. The right thyroid lobe and left central neck compartment contents were left in place to minimize surgical