A 14-year-old boy with morbid obesity and no known prior psychiatric history underwent sleeve gastrectomy. Prior to the surgery, he weighed 167 kilograms with a body mass index (BMI) of 54.5. Within a few months postoperatively, he weighed 70 kilograms with a BMI of 22.8. The patient’s substance use disorder started at the age of 15, one year after the bariatric surgery. Of note, the patient's parents were separated and he lived with his mother and siblings. None of his family members or relatives had a history of substance use disorder. He initially started using fenethylline (marketed under the brand name Captagon), as it was a common substance used by his peers at school. He started with two tablets daily and increased his use gradually up to 15 tablets daily. He started smoking cannabis a year later, at the age of 16, starting with one cigarette per day and increasing his use gradually until reaching a peak of 20 cigarettes per day. The patient started drinking alcohol occasionally at the age of 16 as well, and it soon became an issue of excessive use on a daily basis. The patient drank different types of alcoholic beverages. He reported incidents of fainting in relation to alcohol use but had never experienced withdrawal. He mentioned that he started using alcohol as a way to reduce his use of other substances. Two years later, at the age of 18, the patient started using methamphetamine, which caused him to develop paranoid ideation, auditory hallucinations, severe insomnia, and aggressive behavior. The patient was admitted to an inpatient psychiatric unit for a few days and was started on haloperidol 3 mg orally twice daily, benztropine 2 mg orally twice daily, and quetiapine 50 mg orally as needed for insomnia. His psychotic disorder improved with the cessation of substance use and the treatments initiated on the inpatient side. After his discharge, he unfortunately relapsed and continued to use the aforementioned substances.
After arranging for close follow-up,