A 50-year-old Hispanic man with known history of obesity and hypertension presented with a 3-month history of abrupt episodes of weakness and altered mental status. He referred severe psychomotor symptoms as well as anxiety, aggressiveness, agitation, weakness, diaphoresis, and decreased visual acuity occurring at any time of the day and improved by eating. Upon further questioning, our patient, who worked as a truck driver and whose symptoms had reflected poorly in his workplace, also expressed overall discomfort with life and wishes of death due to the intensity of his symptoms. He had no history of tobacco smoking or excessive alcohol consumption. Medications taken prior to admission included candesartan 16 mg and hydrochlorothiazide (HCTZ) 12.5 mg once a day for hypertension.
During the following weeks, the symptoms increased in severity and frequency, with continued unremitting anxiety and weakness accompanied by loss of consciousness and extreme burning sensation in his entire body. After this acute episode, he was evaluated by a primary care physician in a local hospital and hospitalized for 4 days, where he continued to present recurrent episodes of irritability and aggression to self and others. He was discharged and referred for psychologic evaluation by mental health services at another institution. No specific diagnoses were given.
Upon release from mental evaluation, he was evaluated by a third physician, who performed a 3-hour postprandial blood glucose test which revealed a blood glucose level of 58 mg/dL. Suspecting an insulinoma, our patient was admitted to a third-level hospital, and upon arrival his vital signs were: afebrile (37 °C), heart rate of 93 beats per minute, blood pressure of 161/84 mmHg, respiratory rate of 19 breaths per minute, and oxygen saturation of 98% on room air. A physical examination revealed an oriented, well-nourished, and hydrated patient, without any stigmata on skin, a normocephalic and atraumatic head, and no masses or lesions. His eyes and ear