A 46-year-old Asian woman was referred to our department for a renal angiogram following 8 months of uncontrolled hypertension despite receiving medications. Initially, the patient presented with severe headache and fatigue. She had no history of smoking or drinking alcohol, was not diabetic, and had no history of diabetes in her family. She had no history of atherosclerosis. Apart from high blood pressure, the result of her physical examination was unremarkable; her general, cardiovascular system, respiratory system, and abdominal examinations were unremarkable. Neurological examination on admission showed that the patient was alert, attentive, and oriented. Her speech was clear and fluent with good repetition, comprehension, and naming. She recalled 3/3 objects at 5 min. All of her cranial nerves were intact. Motor examination revealed no pronator drift of outstretched arms. Her muscle bulk and tone were normal. Her strength was full bilaterally. Her reflexes and sensory were both intact. Her coordination and gait were normal. Laboratory investigations revealed normal complete blood count, serum cholesterol, lipid profile, and renal function (serum creatinine 119 μmol/L). Her left kidney size was normal with measurement of 9.6 cm by 4.8 cm. Renal Doppler ultrasound confirmed renal artery stenosis with renal resistive index of 0.58. The percentage of renal artery stenosis in the two branches of the left renal artery was 70% and 75%, respectively , before the first balloon angioplasty; after the first balloon angioplasty, these percentages remained the same. After the second ballooning and stenting procedure, revascularization was achieved. The patient had been attending a hypertension clinic and receiving antihypertensive drugs for the past 8 months on a regular basis under close observation. Despite this treatment and care, her blood pressure remained high at 175/110 mmHg, which the attending doctor concluded to be uncontrolled blood pressure. Initial imaging indicated left renal artery stenosis, and the patient was referred to our department (Fig. ). Prior to the diagnosis of renal artery stenosis, the patient had been receiving