A 20-year-old man with both upper limb disabilities admitted to our hospital for mandatory health screening before military service. He had no health complaints other than the skeletal disorder involving his upper limbs. In detailed questioning, he stated that he had four fingers in his left foot. He is the last of six children born to nonconsanguineous healthy parents. All of his brothers and sisters are completely healthy. There is no family history of any kind of congenital skeletal abnormalities in the extended family. His mother was at the age of 32 when she gave birth to our patient. There is no history of any drug, smoke, alcohol, or radiation exposure during pregnancy. Our patient was born uneventfully at full-term through normal vaginal delivery. No other significant health problem is present in the history of his childhood.
On physical examination, all skeletal elements beyond his left elbow and right wrist, and the fifth finger of his left foot were found to be absent (). He had oligodactyly of the left foot (). Anteroposterior radiograph of the right arm depicted the absence of the hand with well-developed radius and ulna. There was a rudimentary bone of about 1 cm in the medial neighborhood of the distal ulna (). Anteroposterior radiograph of the left arm demonstrated that the proximal forearm segment participating in the elbow joint structure was small but present, while the radius and ulna distal to this point were absent (). Anteroposterior, lateral oblique, and mediolateral radiographs of the left foot revealed absence of the fifth finger and the lateral cuneiform. The second to fourth fingers were short. The number, size, and joint relations of the other bones forming the foot were normal (). Magnified anteroposterior and lateral oblique radiographs of the left foot showed that the middle phalanges of the second and third fingers were shorter than the distal phalanges, and the middle phalanx of the fourth finger was absent ().
The patient was then referred to the Department of Orth