The patient was a 62-year-old male with a past medical history of liver cirrhosis secondary to hepatitis C, tobacco use, and post-stent coronary artery disease, who initially came to the hospital for elective left and right heart catheterization as a pre-transplant evaluation. Physical examination showed abdominal distension and diffuse tenderness with the presence of prominent superficial abdominal veins. A computed tomography (CT) scan of the abdomen with contrast was obtained immediately. The CT showed an occlusive thrombus of the IVC extending from the renal veins to the level of the cavoatrial junction. Thrombus was also observed in the portal vein, and multiple subcutaneous varicosities were found. Initially, a plan was made to start the patient on anticoagulation, but because of the patient’s history of advanced cirrhosis, large esophageal varices on recent endoscopy, and thrombocytopenia, we concluded that the patient was not a candidate for anticoagulation. Given that the patient had significant abdominal distention with pain that did not improve even after therapeutic paracentesis; we inserted a stent in the IVC to relieve the patient’s pain as a palliative procedure to improve his quality of life.
Right internal jugular (IJ) and right femoral vein accesses were obtained for the procedure. A 6F pigtail diagnostic catheter was advanced from the right IJ to the right atrium, and contrast was injected into the right atrium that showed an occluded IVC at the junction of the right atrium. Another pigtail catheter was advanced through the right femoral vein and an inferior venogram was performed that showed the IVC was 100% occluded 2 cm above the renal veins (Figures , ).
A Glidewire advantage was advanced through the right femoral vein but was unable to cross the 100% occluded IVC. Then, a 7-French Swan-Ganz catheter was tried and was successfully advanced through the IVC all the way to the right atrium. A Swan wire was inserted through the Swan-Ganz catheter. Then, a multipurpose catheter