We present a case of a 58-year-old female patient with a large recurrent ventral hernia. Six years before, the patient had been operated on for the umbilical hernia, with the simple repair without a mesh. The patient was an active smoker who suffered from morbid obesity with a body mass index of 43 kg/m2 and COPD as comorbidities relevant for this case report.
The patient was introduced to the surgeon during hospitalization at the gastroenterology department where a diagnostic workup due to a clinical picture of chronic small bowel obstruction was conducted. While taking the anamnesis, the patient reported frequent abdominal cramps, swelling, and pain in the area of the hernia that had intensified in the last few weeks. The physical examination revealed a large irreducible ventral hernia in the lower abdomen that was quite painful on palpation, but soft and, at that time, without signs of incarceration or strangulation. Taking into account the clinical picture with threatening hernia incarceration, the surgeon did not opt for preoperative optimization of the patient in terms of smoking cessation and starting a weight loss program but made an indication for semielective surgery.
On operative procedure, greater omentum, part of the transverse colon, and a cluster of small bowel loops with signs of chronic obstruction were found as hernial content. After adhesiolysis hernial content was reduced into the abdominal cavity. Hernial defect measuring about 7 cm in diameter and about 15 cm in the vertical line with significant rectus diastase in the supraumbilical part of the abdomen was revealed. Using the Rives-Stoppa technique a wide retromuscular space was created. Lateral dissection boundaries of this space were perforating neurovascular bundles in the area of the lateral edges of the rectus muscle on both sides. The posterior fascia was easily closed using also a portion of the hernia sac to bridge the defect between the posterior rectus sheaths. A 30 × 25 cm polypropylene mesh was placed in the retromuscular space ensuring adequate mesh overlap over