A 76-year-old African American lady presented to the hospital with new onset weakness and back pain. Her medical history consisted of essential hypertension, atrial fibrillation, abdominal aortic aneurysm, sick sinus syndrome, asthma, and gout. She reported that her back pain started after she came back from the bathroom at 4 : 00 a.m. while trying to sit down on the bed. The patient described the pain as shooting in nature, severe in intensity, and radiating down her left arm with no clear exacerbating or relieving factors. Over the following few minutes, she developed progressive weakness in her left lower and upper extremities and later on became unable to move her left leg which led to her being transferred to the Medical Intensive Care Unit. She also developed numbness in her left leg up to the level of the knee and in her left arm up to the level of the shoulder. There was no history of any urinary or stool incontinence or retention or any previous similar episodes.
The patient had been recently diagnosed with atrial fibrillation one month prior to presentation in an outside hospital and had since been maintained on apixaban 1 tablet 5 mg twice daily. Her other home medications included alprazolam, allopurinol, losartan, hydrochlorothiazide, and metoprolol. She reported full compliance with her medications prior to presentation. A dual chamber pacemaker was inserted 11 days before this visit in an outside hospital, and her other surgical history included a hysterectomy several years ago for uterine fibroids. She denied any history of smoking, alcohol abuse, or illicit substances usage. The patient did not have previous bleeding history.
The patient's vital signs on presentation were within normal limits, and her neurological exam showed a patient alert and oriented to time, place, and person with intact speech. Her motor power was 5/5 in her right upper extremity proximally and 4/5 distally and 3/5 in her left upper extremity proximally and 1/5 distally. In her lower extremities, the