A 50 years old male long-distance truck driver presented to our Hospital in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia with severe constant retrosternal chest pain, diaphoresis and vomiting of ingested matter for the previous two days. The patient had a history of hypertension and elevated blood cholesterol levels. He was brought to the emergency department after he experienced an acute loss of consciousness of short duration. He reported that, after an episode of severe chest pain, he was not aware of his surroundings and lost control over his truck for a few seconds. The truck went off the road but fortunately no one was injured. The patient had no previous history of heart disease, and no cough or pleuritic pain. There was no history of alcohol or cigarette use.
Physical examination was normal except for hypertension (blood pressure 160/100 mm Hg) and low-grade fever with axillary temperature of 37.5 °C. He was admitted to hospital. Initially he was investigated for an acute coronary syndrome. Echocardiogram findings and serum troponin levels were normal. On the second days of his admission, he experienced one episode of bloody vomiting. On further questioning, his physicians learned that the patient had pain on swallowing. They also discovered that he was taking ceftriaxone injections and Doxycycline 100 mg capsules twice per day for four days. The medications were prescribed in another health facility for a febrile illness. The patient had no prior history of esophageal disease.
A gastroenterologist was consulted and esophagogastroduodenoscopy (EGD) was performed. There were multiple mucosal ulcerations in the proximal and middle esophagus (Figs. and ) as well as at the lower esophageal sphincter. In addition, hyperemia and erosions were seen in both stomach and duodenum. Mild bleeding was noted.
Laboratory tests were normal except for a mild transient elevation of liver transaminases and a triglyceride level of 243 mg per deciliter. Serum albumin and bilirubin were normal. Hepatitis B surface antigen and