A 25 year-old primigravida patient was referred from a nearby health center to HEAL Africa Hospital, a multidisciplinary tertiary hospital for management of an acute abdomen at 33-weeks gestation.
Her chief complaint was severe abdominal pain associated with each fetal movement for a period of 1 week prior to admission at the referring health center. Among other undocumented treatments, the patient had been managed with spasmolytics and hematinics but without relief of her pain. On August 30, 2019, when the patient’s condition worsened, the decision was made to transfer her for further care. She reported to the emergency unit of the hospital on the same date at 21h30.
Her first and second trimesters had been uncomplicated. She had received antenatal care in a nearby clinic where she was treated with antihelmintics, iron and folic acid supplementation, as well as prophylactic anti-malarials, according to recommended standards. The patient had not had an obstetrical ultrasound. There was no history of any symptoms suggestive of sexually transmitted diseases such as vaginal discharge or genital ulcers.
about the duration of her cycle, she typically bled for 3 days per cycle and denied pain or passage of clots during menstruation. Dates of her last normal menstrual period were unknown.
Past medical history was notable for malaria with two prior admissions to a nearby clinic. There was no history of chronic illnesses such as hypertension, diabetes mellitus, asthma or sickle cell disease, and the patient did not take any medications on an ongoing basis. She had never been tested for HIV.
She had never undergone myomectomy or any other surgical procedures and did not have a history of blood transfusion. There was no history of involvement in road traffic or other accidents.
On social history, the patient was the third born in a family of five children. Her parents and siblings were alive and healthy. There was no family history of chronic illnesses. The patient was a married housewife and