A 52-year-old man presented in the emergency department of our hospital with a history of typical angina and recurrent electrical storms with an in situ cardiac resynchronization therapy defibrillator (CRT-D) device, implanted 9 years ago.
The patient’s medical records revealed that an emergency coronary angiography had been performed 11 years ago for a transient posterior wall myocardial infarction. Interestingly no culprit lesion was discovered, with simultaneous left ventriculography showing no significant LV-function impairment. Two years later, the patient was readmitted with severe dyspnea and recurrent angina. A repeat coronary angiography could not establish an ischemic cause of the symptoms in the absence of any relevant coronary artery stenosis. Echocardiography showed a dilated left ventricle with severely reduced left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF = 28%). Further investigation with cardiac-MRI, in the absence of any extensive myocardial scarring and specific tissue characteristics, excluded probable ischemic, dilated, hypertrophic, restrictive and arrhythmogenic aetiologies of severely reduced left-ventricular function. The precise pathophysiology governing the heart failure and ventricular remodelling remained in this case obscure. Hence, a provisional diagnosis of idiopathic nonischemic cardiomyopathy was proposed.
In view of continuing symptoms despite optimal heart failure regimen and without further improvement of left ventricular function, a primary prevention strategy with programmed ventricular stimulation was adopted. The patient underwent conventional CRT-D system implantation in the presence of a complete left bundle branch block (LBBB).
Remarkably, the patient was a classic CRT-D responder with the improvement of LVEF up to 42% with no unusual electrical activity over the period. As part of a continuous heart care program, the patient had been attending regularly scheduled cardiology follow-up consultation. The patient showed to date no further deterioration of his cardiac function and had no clinical episodes of VT or shocks; however, he continued to have intermittent angina throughout. None of the further records revealed any ischemic cause of symptoms, except one of the angiograms showing the non-traceability of RCA.
N