A 37-year-old right-handed male presented to the emergency department with right wrist pain and decreased range of motion of the forearm following a friendly grappling match. On history, he was mildly intoxicated by alcohol at the time of the injury. His friend had performed an arm-bar holding the patient's right arm between his legs while pulling on the forearm with his hands. The patient tried to escape the maneuver by forcefully pulling and pronating his forearm. He immediately felt pain in his right forearm and was unable to use it afterwards. His past medical history was significant for alcohol, tobacco, and cocaine use. He was not known to be suffering any other medical conditions and had never suffered any injury to his right wrist or forearm in the past. On physical examination, the forearm was locked in supination, with no passive or active pronation elicited. There was loss of the dorsal ulnar prominence, and a palpable and tender solid mass was felt on the volar aspect of the wrist, which was presumed to be a volarly dislocated ulnar head (). The skin was intact, and the neurovascular status of the hand was normal. Radiographic examination of bilateral forearms confirmed our suspicions, displaying overlap between the radius and ulna on the anteroposterior view and volar displacement of the ulnar head relative to the distal radius on the lateral view. A CT scan was performed, completing the clinical picture by revealing impaction of the ulnar head on the distal radius ().
After obtaining informed consent, closed reduction was planned under procedural sedation. The reduction was first attempted by pronating the forearm while applying a posteriorly directed force to the ulnar head. After an unsuccessful first attempt, a second attempt was performed with an assistant applying pressure on the interosseous membrane (IOM) of the forearm using the palm of both of his hands, in an effort to free the impacted ulnar head from the distal radius (). With the ulnar head now freed from the