A 55-year-old Caucasian woman with a 5-month history of abdominal pain and vomiting was diagnosed as having a probable high-grade ovarian malignancy with a large volume of peritoneal disease. She had a prior ultrasound of her pelvis which demonstrated a 17 cm large irregular solid vascularized mass in her right ovary. Her comorbidities included obesity (body mass index of 33), asthma, and she had previously undergone a laparoscopic cholecystectomy. There was no significant family history. She did not smoke tobacco and she drank alcohol occasionally. She was scheduled for debulking surgery; however, she presented to our emergency department with worsening abdominal pain, vomiting, and diarrhea. A physical examination showed dry mucous membranes, capillary refill < 3 seconds, and jugular venous pressure of 4 cm. Her chest was clear on auscultation with dual heart sounds. Her abdomen was distended with generalized tenderness but no guarding or signs of peritonism. Bowel sounds were present. A computed tomography (CT) scan of her abdomen and pelvis was performed which demonstrated the large right ovarian tumor, peritoneal tumor deposits, and ascites. There was extrinsic compression of her sigmoid colon due to the tumor without radiological signs of large bowel obstruction. There were no other abnormalities of her bowel. She received intravenously administered fluids for rehydration, anti-emetics for nausea, and intravenously administered morphine for abdominal pain. She remained overnight in our emergency department for treatment. She was reassessed the following morning after resolution of her symptoms and was found to be hemodynamically stable and subsequently discharged home.
She re-presented 1 week later with similar symptoms and was admitted to hospital for further management. Following multidisciplinary discussion, she was recommended for neoadjuvant chemotherapy prior to surgical debulking. An urgent core biopsy of the mass confirmed the likely diagnosis of ovarian malignancy. This biopsy indicated a high-grade serous adenocarcinoma. The histology and CT findings were consistent with an International Federation of Gynaecology and Obstetrics (FIGO) stage III ovarian cancer. She was