A 76-year-old man with severe chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) presented with a feeling of fatigue, weight loss, and reduced physical activities. He was diagnosed with COPD at the age of 69 years and had retired from work the following year. His smoking history included 40 cigarettes per day between the age of 14 and 69 years; his airflow limitation was classified as severe by the Global initiative for Chronic Obstructive Lung Disease; and a chest computed tomography (CT) scan showed severe emphysema. He had started long-term oxygen therapy at the age of 72 years and is currently inhaling 3 L/min of oxygen. Medical and family histories were otherwise unremarkable. Cardiac ultrasound excluded comorbid congestive heart failure or pulmonary hypertension, and CT pulmonary arteriography also excluded chronic pulmonary thromboembolism. As the patient had a history of acute exacerbations of COPD more than twice a year with extreme respiratory symptoms, he was prescribed a combination of inhaled long-acting antimuscarinic antagonist, long-acting beta2-agonist, corticosteroid, and oral carbocysteine, ambroxol, and theophylline. He reported symptoms of dyspnea on exertion, depression and anxiety, and a decrease in physical activity. He also experienced anorexia with a weight loss of more than 5 kg in a year, and no other possible causes of weight loss, such as tuberculosis and malignant tumor, were observed. Therefore, in addition to respiratory pharmacotherapy, we prescribed an antianxiety drug and provided nutritional supplement therapy, patient education, and pulmonary rehabilitation. However, the patient's mental and physical symptoms did not improve after 4 months. Furthermore, he exhibited deterioration in activities of daily living as well as physical and mental weakness; hospital visits were difficult and therefore, he considered home care. Persistent weight loss, poor endurance and energy, and low physical activity levels led to the diagnosis of physical frailty according to Fried's criteria (). This vulnerability was supported by assessments using the Kihon Checklist (KCL) (), the COPD Assessment Test (CAT) (