A 26 year-old man attended our ophthalmic ward in April 2017 with intermittent bleeding of the right eye, from which there was also strong odor. The patient was a heavy smoker but had no other underlying conditions. He had no history of drug-use. From his medical history it was noted that the patient had undergone a right ophthalmectomy 24 years previously due to retinoblastoma, and implantation of an artificial right eyeball in 2014 (timeline shown in Additional file ).
On admission, his pulse rate was between 80 and 100 beats/min. His body temperature and respiratory rate were both normal. Physical examination showed narrow conjunctival sac in right eye and the exposure of ocular prosthesis, which was discharging a yellow-green secretion along with a strong odor. The visual acuity of left eye was 0.3, and the intraocular pressure was 15 mmHg. All other characteristics of the left eye were normal. A auscultation did not show any abnormality in the lungs, and no signs of carotid murmur were found. Interestingly, laboratory investigations did not reveal abnormal inflammatory markers such as leukocytosis or any increase in neutrophils or C-reaction protein. According to clinical and laboratory investigations, infectious endocarditis was not suspected. The patient had no history of other immunosuppressive conditions, except smoking and a retinoblastoma 24 years previously. The patient did not report any direct contact with animals; however, he did work in a clothing factory so would have been contact with wool and cowhide for one month of the year. Three months had elapsed between the patient last coming into contact with wool and cowhide and the appearance of clinical symptoms. Considering the results of these investigations, partial artificial eye infection, especially anaerobic organism infection, was suspected.
Imaging workups were completed, which included chest x-ray, transthoracic echocardiography and eye magnetic resonance imaging. As shown in Fig. , eye magnetic resonance imaging revealed that the tissue surrounding the right eye prosthesis as well as the soft tissue of the lacrimal gland area