A 47-year-old right-handed Japanese man was admitted to Keio University Hospital with acute onset of sensory aphasia.
Fourteen days before his admission the patient began to have difficulties in operating computers and document processing software. The symptoms worsened over the next 10 days, without headache, fever, or seizure. Three days before his admission, at evening, he suddenly became incoherent and agitated in association with impaired auditory comprehension. He underwent a brain MRI at another hospital; he was suspected of having a herpes simplex encephalitis (HSE), and then he was referred and admitted to the department of neurology at our hospital for further evaluation and treatment. Prior to admission he had no hypoglycemic episodes, preceding viral infection, recent medication changes, or other precipitating events leading to seizure.
He had a past medical history of type-2 diabetes since the age of 41 years, for which he had been treated with acarbose, but he had no other history including cardiomyopathy, atrial fibrillation, migraine, sensorineural hearing loss, seizures, or psychiatric illness. His growth and development were normal. His mother suffered from type-1 diabetes and deafness, which had begun in her 40s, and suddenly died of unknown cause at the age of 68 years. He had no habit of smoking, drinking, or the use of illicit drugs.
On admission (day 1), the temperature was 36.6 °C, the blood pressure 110/65 mmHg, the pulse 84 beat per minute, and the oxygen saturation 97% while he was breathing ambient air. The height was 154 cm, and the weight was 42 kg; the body mass index was 17.7, but physical examination was otherwise unremarkable. On neurologic examination the patient was awake but agitated and uncooperative. He was able to speak fluently but he had paraphasia and preservation; naming, repetition, and auditory and reading comprehension were severely impaired, implying sensory predominant aphasia. Motor and sensory examination was grossly intact.