A 55-year-old female with no significant past medical history initially presented in 2006 with vague abdominal pain. Her past social history was negative for alcoholism or smoking. Work up of the patient including physical examination and laboratory indices were all normal. A multi-detector CT of the abdomen and pelvis utilizing a pancreatic mass protocol (arterial, portal venous and delayed phases) was performed which revealed a diffusely enlarged pancreas with extensive parenchymal calcifications (). No discrete mass was identified in the pancreas. Minimal pancreatic ductal dilatation was noted on the CT examination. The patient was diagnosed with chronic pancreatitis and followed clinically for several years. In 2015, the patient presented with recurrent abdominal pain. A CT of the abdomen and pelvis with pancreatic mass protocol was repeated (), which revealed new hypoattenuating masses in the pancreatic neck and tail. Some of the smaller tumours were hypervascular on the arterial phase imaging. There was redemonstration of extensive parenchymal calcifications. No pancreatic atrophy was identified. The pancreatic duct remained minimally dilated. Given the new masses many of which were arterially enhancing, the possibility of neuroendocrine tumour was raised. A MRI of the abdomen with pancreatic mass protocol (T2 with fat saturation, MRCP, in and out of phase T1 and unenhanced T1/arterial/portal/ 5 min delayed post-contrast T1) was performed (). The MRI confirmed multiple well-circumscribed masses throughout the pancreas, many of which had increased T2 signal with cystic change. The pancreatic duct was at most mildly prominent, and no lesions were identified outside of the pancreas. The largest pancreatic mass in the tail measured approximately 3.5 cm, with peripheral enhancement and central hypointense signal (). An endoscopic ultrasound was performed, which confirmed a hypoechoic mass in the tail of the pancreas, two isoechoic masses in the head of the pancreas, and diffuse parenchymal calcifications suggestive of chronic pancreatitis. Fine needle aspiration of the pancreatic masses in the head was performed, with cytology returning