A 72-year-old male presented to emergency department with tender mass on lower back and posterior aspect of neck. Apparently, he had noticed it on his lower back 6 months ago and had grown in size with another similar swelling appearing on his neck, also they were increasingly painful and sore to touch. He had a history of ongoing sore throat for 3 years for which he was extensively investigated by ENT services. His CT neck and mediastinum did not show any abnormalities at that time. This was followed by laryngoscopy which showed a white patch on the right vocal cord, biopsy of which showed non-specific chronic inflammatory changes and cultures grew candida. Background history included COPD; he was heavy current smoker and smoked about 60 cigarettes per day. His medications included salmeterol/fluticasone propionate and ipratropium bromide inhalers. Vitals were within normal range. On examination, 4 cm nodular, firm, tender, immobile mass on lower back and 3 cm mass on posterior aspect of lower cervical spine were noted.
His laboratory investigation including renal and liver function, full blood count and coagulation profile were normal. A CT of thorax, abdomen and pelvis was arranged which showed 2 × 2 cm mass in right lung lower lobe likely malignant with no hilar or mediastinal lymphadenopathy, also 3 × 3 cm soft tissue mass at C6-C7 level posteriorly and 4 × 2 cm mass was noted on lumbar region with multiple prominent inguinal lymph nodes ().
A referral for bronchoscopy was sent and biopsy of the nodule was planned. While awaiting bronchoscopy appointment, biopsy was taken from mass in lower back and send for histopathology. Histology showed poorly differentiated tumour cells in cohesive groups and sheets with moderate pleomorphism and eosinophilic cytoplasm; immunohistochemistry was positive for AE1/3, cytokeratin 7 and carcinoembryonic antigen antibody stain and periodic-acid schiff. Weak nuclear positivity for TTF-1 was also seen. Overall features were consistent with poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma likely of lung origin.