A 28-year-old Caucasian male (80 kg, 178 cm) was admitted to the emergency room with acute urinary retention and lower abdominal pain. The patient had consumed 1 l of wine and several beers within the last few hours. Otherwise, he was in a good general condition and had not complained about any urinary symptoms beforehand. The patient did not have any pre-existing conditions and his family history was negative for genitourinary disease including renal calculi. He admitted to smoking cigarettes and drinking alcohol regularly for more than 10 years. He did not take any illicit drugs or prescription medication. He had no known allergies. Physical examination revealed a distended lower abdomen. Digital rectal examination and all other physical findings did not show any abnormalities. Neurological examination was non-contributory. Ultrasound showed normal kidneys and a full bladder without any wall irregularities. The prostate was unremarkable and its size was not documented. Hence, the first working diagnosis was alcohol-induced urinary retention. Consequently, a Foley catheter was placed without any problems. It drained 1 l of clear urine. The complaints of the patient diminished gradually. Urinalysis showed normal values. A therapy trial with the nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug diclofenac (75 mg, twice daily) was initiated. The patient came back 2 days later for a trial without catheter (TWOC). Hereafter, he was able to urinate sufficiently. A month later, the patient suffered acute urinary retention again, this time without being under the influence of alcohol or other drugs. Physical examination and abdominal ultrasound now both revealed an enlarged prostate measuring approximately 50 ml. Laboratory tests did not show any abnormal values, including those of prostate-specific antigen (PSA) and lactate dehydrogenase (LDH). The working diagnosis was changed to urinary retention caused by benign prostatic hyperplasia. Alpha-blocker therapy with tamsulosin (0.4 mg, once daily) was started. Three days later another TWOC failed and a new Foley catheter was