A 53-year-old Hispanic man with past medical history significant for coronary artery disease, habitual intravenous heroin abuse, chronic untreated hepatitis C without cirrhosis, bipolar disorder, tobacco abuse of 80 pack-year, and degenerative disc disease presented from home to our hospital with chief complaint of left scrotal pain, diffuse abdominal pain, back pain, and chest pain. Four days prior to presentation, he was seen in the emergency department for chronic back pain and was discharged with naproxen and instruction to follow up with his primary care physician. Since then, he developed acute onset of sharp constant pain of his left testicle and his abdomen. He admitted to using ten bags of heroin intravenously daily. He underwent an incision and drainage one month prior for a skin abscess. He reported no new sexual partner and is only sexually active with his current girlfriend. Family history was significant for heart disease in both his parents and maternal grandparents. His vital signs on admission were within the normal range. Physical exam revealed a man, with cachexia and temporal muscle wasting, in moderate distress from pain. He had jaundice with icteric sclera. His lungs were clear to auscultation. His heart sounds had regular rate and rhythm without any audible murmur. He had a soft abdomen that was mildly distended and tender in all four quadrants. His genitourinary exam was significant for bilateral scrotal erythema and swelling, which was worse on the left and was tender to light touch. He had diffuse tenderness to his back including paraspinal muscles, but no tenderness to the spinal processes. He was alert and oriented to person, time, and place and could answer questions appropriately. He had no facial asymmetry or deviated tongue, and he displayed normal proximal and distal strength. Laboratory findings were significant for WBC of 12.1 K/mm3 with a neutrophil predominance of 90%, microcytic anemia with hemoglobin 7.7 g/dL and MCV 75.6 fL, and thrombocytopenia of 47 K/mm3.