A 56-year-old female patient was transferred to our department of critical care medicine, Huashan hospital in Shanghai in June 2016 after she received treatment in a local hospital for productive cough, tachypnea and respiratory distress. She complained of recurrent fever and asymmetric edema of the lower extremities for over 1 month, as well as painful swelling both in the thyroid and labium majus for 2 weeks. In the previous hospital, due to the finding of multiple bilateral cysts which were palpable nodules in her thyroid gland by ultrasound examination, a left lobe thyroid puncture and drainage had been conducted and an aspergillus fumigatus infection was detected. She had a history of systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) and lupus nephritis for 8 years, and received prednisone treatment for these diseases. But from November 2015, prednisone was switched to methylprednisolone, and hydroxychloroquine has been added because of lupus nephritis aggravation, and tacrolimus has also been added to the medications in the following month. She was also diagnosed with renal hypertension and diabetes induced by steroids, and received antihypertension and antihyperglycemic therapy. She had no history of pulmonary diseases such as chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), asthma, or any repeated infections, and had no addiction to drugs, smoking or alcoholism. Previous examinations showed no evidence of neutropenia. The ratio of CD4/CD8 was 0.33. Only one aspergillus test was positive in repeated sputum cultures. The galactomannan aspergillus antigen and culture tests in BALF were negative, so were blood and urine cultures including fungi. Our chest computed tomography (CT) imaging revealed bilateral patchy lung opacities in the middle and lower lobes, along with multiple shadows of fibrotic streaks, high-density nodules and mediastinal calcification of lymph nodes (Fig. ). The diagnosis of pulmonary infection was established, and pathogen was highly suspected of aspergillus according to the previous finding of thyroid puncture and drainage. An ultrasound examination showed thrombosis in the bilateral femoral veins and popliteal veins. In addition