An 82-year-old woman presented as a transfer from an outside facility with painless, obstructive jaundice. She observed yellowing of her skin, poor appetite, and fatigue for two days, as well as dark brown urine. She was otherwise healthy and independent at home. She did not smoke and had no family history of malignancy.
Diagnostic workup at the outside facility was notable for elevated total bilirubin to 14.4 mg/dL, alkaline phosphatase to 1,004 U/L, and white blood cell count was elevated at 23.6 × 103/μL. Magnetic resonance cholangiopancreatography (MRCP) had shown intra- and extrahepatic biliary dilation with evidence of a stricture in the distal common bile duct (CBD) suggestive of a pancreatic head mass. It also revealed the presence of a large, type III hiatal hernia, which had been previously asymptomatic other than mild reflux disease.
Given the concern for cholangitis, the patient was taken for an endoscopic ultrasound with subsequent ERCP to further evaluate her pathology and relieve her biliary obstruction. Endoscopy confirmed the presence of a large, type III hiatal hernia, which made advancing the endoscope into the duodenum difficult. The endoscopists were still able to proceed with ultrasound and were successful in identifying and obtaining biopsies of a mass in the pancreatic head. However, ERCP was aborted as the scope could not be advanced past the second portion of the duodenum. As the scope was being removed from the stomach, a small, linear tear was noted in the stomach mucosa along the greater curvature of the fundus, though the endoscopist believed it to be a partial-thickness tear. This was closed with serially placed 5 mm endoscopic clips, and complete approximation of the mucosa was seen.
The patient was subsequently placed on IV antibiotics and closely observed. Unfortunately, she progressed to develop signs of mediastinitis, peritonitis, and sepsis. A subsequent computed tomography (CT) scan showed a persistent hernia with intra-abdominal and mediastinal free air and extraluminal contrast