A 67-year-old woman was referred to the Department of Maxillofacial Surgery of the Galeazzi Orthopedic Institute five years after the diagnosis and treatment of a mandibular carcinoma. The clinical history of the patient was rather complex.
In 2012, after a dental visit due to periodontal disease of frontal inferior teeth, the patient underwent a computerized tomography (CT) scan that revealed the presence of an osteolytic lesion in this site (). A preoperative histopathological examination revealed an intraosseous squamous cell carcinoma. The medical history data of the patient revealed no systemic diseases or smoking habits. The patient was treated with surgical removal of the lesion through subtotal mandibular resection, associated with a temporary tracheostomy, bilateral lymph node neck dissection and fibula free flap reconstruction (). After flap failure, a second fibula free flap was performed, but this again failed. Seven months later, a spontaneous internal jugular vein and external carotid artery laceration was treated by vessel ligation. The pectoralis flap was then used to supply soft tissue defects. Oncological follow-up observed a recurrence nineteen months after the first surgery. Multiple cycles of chemotherapy and monoclonal therapy were then administered. Radiotherapy was refused by the patient.
The first clinical evaluation in our department revealed an important deformity in the inferior third of the face associated with swallowing and language deficiency caused by tongue hypomobility and lower lip paralysis, incontinence, and incompetence. Feeding was possible only with percutaneous endoscopic gastrotomy. Further reconstructive treatment with free flaps was contraindicated. Therefore, it was decided to reconstruct the mandible with a CAD/CAM technique and with a custom-made DMLS titanium implant. The patient was informed about the procedure in full detail and signed an informed consent form dedicated to this therapy. The study protocol was approved by the Ethics Committee of the University of Insubria (n’ 826, 10/08/2013). All procedures performed complied with the World Medical Organization’s Declaration of Helsinki.