The first case we present is that of a 29-year-old woman who presented to the clinic with the complaint of an enlarging left breast mass. She first noticed that this mass almost 2 years ago and mentions that it has been growing in size and becoming more erythematous and tender. She did not report any recent weight loss or change in appetite. She is married with 2 children, and she does not have any illnesses. She smokes hubble-bubble almost 4 times per week and does not drink alcohol. Surgical history is significant for 2 previous Cesarean sections with no complications. History of her current illness dates back to June 2016 when the patient felt a mass in her left breast; upon further investigation, she was diagnosed with idiopathic granulomatous mastitis and later (December 2017) developed an abscess that drained on its own. She was initially treated with methotrexate and later switched to prednisone and mycophenolate with minimal improvement. At the clinic, her vitals were within normal limits, and on physical examination, there was a left breast lump found at the upper inner quadrant with some erythema and inflammation surrounding it. Moreover, there was some skin retraction in this area.
Core biopsy done at an outside hospital in June 2017 revealed no granulomas. Ultrasound done at that time showed a persistent ill-defined hypoechoic mass that appeared initially subdermally and was spanning more than 4 × 1.4 cm. Moreover, multiple deeper masses were seen, one of which was not located within the breast measuring 12.3 × 8.5 mm. Axillary nodes were insignificant and not well appreciated on imaging.
Fine-needle aspirate done in July 2017 was negative for malignancy and was reported to have abscess formation. The slides revealed a heavy inflammatory infiltrate predominantly composed of polymorphonuclear leukocytes. No ductal epithelial cells were seen.
Core biopsy done in November of the same year showed multiple noncaseating epithelioid granulomas composed of epithelioid histiocytes, lymphocytes, neutrophils, and