A 45-year-old Haitian American female with no significant medical history presented with a six-month history of progressive solid food dysphagia and a one-month history of odynophagia. The patient had lost 15 pounds and was only able to tolerate pureed food or liquids. She had experienced no symptomatic relief on omeprazole 40 mg twice daily for the past two months and did not use tobacco, alcohol, or illicit substances. Her initial blood count and metabolic panel were unremarkable. An esophagogastroduodenoscopy (EGD) revealed erythematous and friable mucosa with ulcerations in the proximal esophagus (). There was a stricture encountered at 15 cm from the incisors through which the gastroscope could not be traversed. Biopsies were taken from the inflamed esophageal mucosa and the proximal lumen of the stricture. Brush cytology was collected through the stricture as there was a concern for malignancy. A subsequent barium esophagram and upper GI series demonstrated 2 cm irregular narrowing in the cervical esophagus, but no abnormalities in the rest of the esophagus, the gastroesophageal junction, stomach, duodenum, or proximal jejunum. Contrast-enhanced computed tomography (CT) of the chest showed no acute esophageal, mediastinal, pulmonary, or cardiac pathology. The esophageal biopsy indicated acute and chronic inflammation with filamentous sulfur granules consistent with Actinomyces; rare fungal hyphal elements were additionally identified (Figures , , and ). The cytology was negative for malignant cells and the acid-fast bacilli (AFB) stain was negative, ruling out Nocardia as a potential pathogen. The patient was started on intravenous (IV) Penicillin for a diagnosis of esophageal actinomycosis and oral Fluconazole for a presumed Candida coinfection given concurrent fungal elements. Her human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) status was negative and her fasting blood glucose was within the normal range. She was discharged on Fluconazole 200 mg daily for 2 weeks and IV Penicillin G 3 million units every 4 hours for 6 weeks followed by oral Penicillin