A 49-year old Caucasian male with no significant medical history and no prior complaints of chest pain (smoking was his only known cardiovascular risk factor) was referred to our cardiac emergency department with acute chest pain during exertion. The ambulance ECG showed extreme ST-segment elevation anterolateral (‘tombstone elevations’), which had resolved completely at arrival in the hospital (Figs. and ).
In the hospital the patient immediately went to the catheterization laboratory for an emergency coronary angiography, which showed no significant lesions. At the bifurcation between LMCA and LAD wall irregularities were visible, possibly indicating either a small dissection or a passed thrombus (Fig. ). Dual antiplatelet therapy was continued afterwards. During the next two days the patient did not have any complaints and no arrhythmias occurred. Ultrasonography showed no regional wall motion abnormalities, LV ejection fraction of 50% and no significant valvular disease. Patient received dual antiplatelet therapy, statins and ACE-inhibition. A beta blocker was also started, but had to be stopped due to symptomatic bradycardia. The patient was discharged 3 days after presentation. The out-patient follow-up visit was scheduled within 2 weeks after discharge. Unfortunately after discharge the patient resumed his smoking habits and refused to take any medication.
Two days later the patient presented at the emergency department after reanimation because of collapse due to ventricular fibrillation. Time of delay from onset until arrival of the ambulance was approximately 8 min. The ambulance ECG once again showed marked ST-elevations, which had resolved completely at hospital arrival. At arrival patient also had complete recovery of spontaneous circulation. An emergency coronary angiography was performed, which showed no changes compared to several days earlier and no clear cause of the VF. At first a conservative approach was chosen and the patient was admitted to the ICU. Intracoronary imaging (IVUS) of the LMCA was postponed awaiting neurological recovery.
After arriving at the ICU, the patient developed ventricular arrhythmias with loss of cardiac