A 50-year-old Caucasian female, with no previous smoking history or pancreatic cancer family history, presented to our clinic for surgical evaluation of a biopsy-proven PDA noted at the junction of the body and tail of the pancreas. The patient had previously undergone a classic pancreaticoduodenectomy (Whipple) procedure with concurrent hemicolectomy 6 years prior (in 2011) for a T3N0M0 adenocarcinoma of the pancreatic head that had invaded the mesentery of the proximal transverse colon. After the 2011 surgery, pathology revealed a poorly differentiated PDA along with a PanIN grade 2. The final pathology showed negative surgical margins, positive perineural spread, and 0/33 specimen lymph node involvement. From June 2012 to October 2012, the patient underwent and completed adjuvant chemotherapy with gemcitabine, capecitabine, and radiation at an outside hospital. She was carefully followed by her medical oncology team with serial CA 19-9 monitoring and abdominal MRIs on an ongoing basis. Due to her young age, in 2011, she underwent genetic screening and no germline mutations were identified. Since the time of the primary resection, the patient had been high functioning and healthy, with the exception of some problems of early satiety and recurrent cholangitis. These sequelae were attributed to close proximity of the gastrojejunostomy and hepaticojejunostomy, with possible reflux of intestinal contents up the afferent limb, all partially managed by diet changes.
In 2017, a biannual screening MRI with intravenous contrast showed a new pancreatic lesion measuring 2.3 × 2.2 cm in the tail of the pancreas (). Esophagogastroduodenoscopy and endoscopic ultrasound-guided biopsy identified it as a poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma. From 2011 to 2017, she had had close followup with serial CA 19-9, and a measurement of this marker after identification of the lesion on MRI showed an elevation, which was confirmed on repeat testing (61 and 55 U/mL; normal <37 U/mL). This was the first instance of two consecutive CA 19