A 41-year-old woman who complained of chest tightness after performing an activity, presented with aggravation of symptoms in our hospital. She was diagnosed with pulmonary embolism in a different hospital, prior to her transfer in our institution. The patient occasionally had cough, expectoration, blood in the sputum, and nocturnal sweating, but she had no edema in the lower extremities, fever, smoking history, and related genetic history in the family. There were two transient syncope episodes in the course of the disease. Blood oxygen saturation was 72% and carbohydrate antigen 125(CA125) was 230.2 U/ml at admission. Other physical examinations and laboratory data were unremarkable. Computed tomographic pulmonary angiography (CTPA) showed that there are low-density filling defects in both PAs, and then the patient was diagnosed with PTE (Fig. ). However, venous thrombosis could not be found in her lower extremities. Echocardiography showed at the proximal end of the main PA and its left and right branches, a hyperechoic mass of approximately 13 × 13 mm in size, which appeared to have invaded the pulmonary valve, extending down to the right ventricular outflow tract (Fig. A). It also showed an enlargement of the right heart, severe tricuspid regurgitation and pulmonary hypertension. Moreover, the lateral pulmonary branch of the body could be seen to form (Fig. B). Thus, ultrasonographers considered that the mass is a space-occupying lesion involving the right ventricular outflow tract and pulmonary valve instead of PTE.
Based on these diagnoses and the patient's clinical manifestations, emergency surgery is required. Intraoperatively, the ratio of the aorta to the main PA was found to be 1: 1.3. In the exploration of the main PA under the support of extracorporeal circulation, a large number of polyp like substances, which are irregular in shape, invaded the pulmonary valve, extending down to the septal side of the right ventricular outflow tract, and involving the