A 59-year-old man presented with sudden severe back pain that started while he was smoking. The pain reached a peak in a few minutes, by which time the patient had become aware of insensitivity, numbness, and powerlessness in his legs. He called for an ambulance because of his persistent, severe paraplegia. This symptom had continued developing while he was transferred to the emergency department. He had no history of trauma, but he had a history of diabetes mellitus, hypertension, and coronary artery disease. He was taking prescribed antidiabetic drugs and oral antiplatelet agents, including aspirin (acetylsalicylic acid) and clopidogrel. The patient also had a history of smoking one pack of cigarettes per day for 40 years. Physical examination at the other emergency department showed flaccid paralysis of both lower limbs with areflexia and loss of all sensation below T6 bilaterally, excluding the perianal area. The patient's touch sensation was slightly retained at only the perianal area bilaterally; therefore, the initial neurological diagnosis was American Spinal Injury Association (ASIA) impairment scale (AIS) grade B.[ Eight hours after the onset, he was transferred to our specialized institute due to the previous findings about his paraplegia. He was still presenting flaccid paralysis of both legs at the time of transfer to our institute, whereas the back pain was already completely disappeared. Physical examination showed hypesthesia on the right side below T6 and the analgesia on the left side below T6, excluding perianal area. He had slight touch sensation, but not pinprick pain sensation, at the perianal area bilaterally. Both knee and ankle reflexes were absent, and Babinski sign was positive bilaterally. Rectal examination revealed a flaccid anal sphincter, and anal voluntary control was absent. The bulbocavernosus reflexes and anal wink response were both positive. He had no bowel or bladder control at the time of admission.
The results of peripheral blood tests showed a white blood cells (