History and physical
A 67-year-old male former smoker with a history of prior occupational asbestos exposure and recurrent bronchitis presented with progressive dyspnea and thoracic pain to the point that he could not lie down in bed. A computed tomography (CT) scan of the chest was performed, which was interpreted as right-sided pneumonia with right parapneumonic effusion. He was sent to his local emergency department, where he was admitted for antibiotics and thoracentesis, the latter which demonstrated the presence of atypical mesothelial cells with inflammatory cells. He was readmitted two weeks later for progressive thoracic pain, was found to have a recurrent right-sided pleural effusion, and was managed with partial right pleurectomy with pleural biopsy, and talc pleurodesis. Right pleural pathology demonstrated atypical mesothelial proliferation at the pleural surface, without true invasion or definitive pathologic evidence of malignancy. Following surgery, he felt substantially better, such that he could sleep in the bed again, and he was able to return to his baseline activity levels. He underwent repeat chest CT five months later, which showed right pleural thickening and a small loculated pleural effusion, favored to represent a combination of calcification, pleurodesis, and atelectasis. He remained clinically well for another five months until he presented with cough and sinus congestion unrelieved by guaifenesin, dextromethorphan, and antibiotics. He underwent repeat chest CT that showed extensive mass-like pleural thickening completely encasing the right lung, with prominent involvement of the mediastinal pleura, and probable mediastinal extension into the right paratracheal and precarinal space, with pericardial effusion and probable pericardial metastases. There was no definite invasion into the right chest wall and no evidence of disease outside of the thorax.
He then established care at our institution’s mesothelioma and pleural disease multi-disciplinary program. Pathology review of the previously biopsied pleural tumor revealed that the pleural tumor cells were positive for Wilms' tumor-1 and calretinin, and negative