A 45-year-old female was admitted to hospital for an elective large incisional hernia repair. She had a history of open cholecystectomy through an upper midline laparotomy due to acute cholecystitis two years ago. The postoperative course was complicated due to a deep wound infection and finally resulted in the forming of a large ventral hernia at the incision site. The patient had a history of diabetes mellitus treated with insulin, abuse of alcohol and smoking.
Clinical examination revealed no signs of infection at the hernia site. There were no restrictions for an elective surgery.
Open incisional hernia repair was performed on September 28, 2006 by mesh sized 225 cm2. Intra-abdominal adhesiolysis was done simultaneously because of hard adhesions between the intestinal loops and the abdominal wall. Any spots of residual infection were not found during hernia repair. The patient received 2 g of Cefazolin 30 min prior to incision. Antibiotics were not administered after surgery.
The immediate postoperative course was uncomplicated. Bacterial growth on the swabs taken from the patient's skin before the incision and the mesh surface before the wound closure was not confirmed. The subcutaneous drain was removed and the patient was discharged on the 4th post-operative day.
A routine follow-up visit at an outpatient office two months after the surgery revealed no signs of complications.
The patient presented at the outpatient office on an emergency basis one month later with fever and abdominal pain at the site of the scar. The patient had been well until five days before this presentation when fever, chills and abdominal pain developed. Despite the oral use of Ibumetin, her symptoms did not regress.
Examination revealed a typical clinical presentation of abscess on the distal part of the scar 5.0 × 6.0 cm in size approximately. The patient`s temperature was 38.8 °C.
As there was no possibility to perform urgent surgery and to relieve the patient's suffering, a blind percutaneous puncture of the