A 50-year-old male with a past medical history of chronic cocaine abuse was found unresponsive in the field. He was given multiple doses of naloxone in the field without any improvement in mental status. On presentation in the emergency department (ED), the patient was found unresponsive to questions and unable to follow commands but withdrawing to painful stimuli, with a Glasgow Coma Score of 8, and tachypneic. Vital signs were significant for a respiratory rate of 38 breaths per minute and oxygen saturation of 90% on 6 liters nasal cannula. Physical exam appreciated no tracheal deviation and no jugular venous distention but exhibited an uneven rise and fall of his chest on the right side compared to the left. On cardiopulmonary auscultation, absent breath sounds of the right lung fields were noted with normal cardiac heart sounds. The patient was emergently intubated for airway protection in the ED, and further evaluation was initiated. Immediate imaging with portable chest X-ray was obtained which showed extensive lucency in the right hemithorax suggestive of large pneumothorax or an air-filled cyst (). A CT scan of the chest was performed which suggested extensive pneumothorax of the right lung without a mediastinal shift ().
For this reason, an emergent 24 French chest tube was placed in the right 6th intercostal space but failed to expand the lung. In response, the chest tube was then exchanged for a 32 French tube under the assumption that a larger size may be required, but it too failed to expand the lung. There was no air drainage from either tube placed suggesting lack of a pneumothorax. He was stabilized and admitted to the intensive care unit for further management. A few hours after admission, he underwent bronchoscopy with a right chest VATS which revealed a giant bulla encasing the entire right pleural cavity with its origin in the right upper lobe beginning at the apex. The bulla was extracted, and pleurodesis was performed by mechanical and chemical means. After the procedure, the patient's respiratory