A 19-year-old male patient presented to our hospital in July 2019, with complaints of abdominal pain and vomiting for the last 15 days.
The patient had a history of recurrent abdominal pain for the last two years. Each episode was characteristic of severe central abdominal pain along with vomiting. He had multiple admissions as a result of these episodes. Detailed inquiry and checking of previous records revealed that these episodes were a result of recurrent attacks of acute pancreatitis. Each episode was characterized by markedly elevated levels of serum amylase and lipase, and imaging studies in the form of ultrasound and contrast-enhanced CT of the abdomen revealed a swollen pancreas and peripancreatic fluid collection. His imaging two years back revealed gallstones as well. Last year, he underwent endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreaticography (ERCP) which showed gallstones and common bile duct (CBD) stones. Biliary stone removal and sphincterotomy were performed during the ERCP procedure. It was followed a few weeks later by laparoscopic cholecystectomy. He remained symptom-free for a few months. However, he again suffered from two further attacks of pancreatitis and underwent ERCP again which did not reveal any bile duct stones.
Now, the patient presented to our department with complaints of severe central abdominal pain and vomiting for the last two weeks. The pain was of moderate intensity with radiation to the back. The pain was only relieved by taking narcotic painkillers. He also had multiple episodes of vomiting associated with food intake. There was no blood in his vomitus. The patient denied intake of alcohol, illicit drugs, or any type of alternative form of medicine. There was no history of trauma, insect bite, other procedures (apart from those mentioned above), headaches, altered level of consciousness, fever, cough, altered bowel habits, jaundice, skin rashes, or abdominal distension. He had lost around 10-kg weight in the last two years. Both of his parents had type 2 diabetes mellitus (DM). He did not smoke and belonged to a