A 44-year-old Pakistani male, who was not known to have medical illnesses, and walked into our academic institution with a right lower lid inner palpebral swelling for one month. The mass was painless and progressively increasing in size. There was no history of tearing or discharge. The patient reported an unclear history of ocular surface surgery 5 years prior to his presentation for excision of a smaller conjunctival lesion of unknown nature in the same location. No histopathological details about that lesion were available and no diagnosis was obtained from the history. He was not receiving any regular medications and he was not a known smoker. He was not a good historian especially because of language barrier, however limited family history was obtained and was not found to be significant.
Upon examination, the visual acuity was 20/20 in both eyes with unremarkable ocular examination. The patient had a right lower lid mass in the medial half of the palpebral conjunctiva measuring 20 mm × 20 mm. The mass was painless, non-tender, reddish in color, soft and semi-cystic in consistency with smooth surface that trans-illuminates but with dim content (a & b). No discharge or bleeding was noted. The right lower punctum was slit-like in shape within the mass. The proposed clinical diagnoses included adult onset xanthogranuloma and other possible cystic lesions such as vascular lesions and epithelial cysts.
The patient was consented for an excisional biopsy of the mass, which was completely excised by an experienced oculoplastic surgeon through conjunctival approach under local anaesthesia within one week of his initial presentation. During excision the lesion was causing remarkable distention of the lower canaliculus without destruction. Probing was done and showed patent nasolacrimal duct, and mini Monoka stent was inserted through the right lower punctum, and the wall of the distended lower canaliculus was trimmed off and sutured over it. Inspection of the excised lesion was suggestive