We present a 62-year-old male patient, who presented with a few months of left-sided, episodic, blood-stained nipple discharge, occurring spontaneously and without warning. The discharge had the appearance of ‘frank blood’. He had not noticed any other changes to the breast or nipple and had no history of trauma. His previous history included a mild inflammatory arthritis for which he no longer required medication and a microprolactinoma, diagnosed 13 years previously, for which he required testosterone supplementation due to hypogonadotropic hypogonadism, but no other treatment. At the time of the presentation with blood stained nipple discharge, prolactin levels were within normal ranges as were other hormone assays related to his pituitary function. Cabergoline had been discontinued four years prior to presentation. There was no family history of breast cancer, he did not smoke or take alcohol in excess.
Clinical assessment found no visible or palpable abnormality in the breast disc but demonstrated the bloody discharge. Ultrasonography demonstrated subareolar ducts but no focal mass. Mammography was normal on the right but indeterminate on the left with a 16-mm asymmetry in the 9-o-clock position within the retroareolar tissue and with associated flecks of benign appearing calcification (Figure ). Cytology of a smear of discharge showed plentiful red blood cells and histiocytes with no epithelial cells present. As duct excision was planned, core biopsy was not performed.
The case was discussed in a multi-disciplinary team meeting and a left total duct excision was recommended. This was performed under general anaesthetic, with an anterior shave of tissue taken from behind the nipple. Pathological findings were unusual in the context of a male patient, showing a few scattered benign intraductal papillomas measuring up to 2 mm (Figure ). Immunohistochemistry showed heterogenous positivity with cytokeratin (CK) 5/6. No atypia was noted. The patient made an uneventful recovery with no further reported nipple discharge and preservation of his nipple and chest wall