A 37-year-old woman was admitted to the emergency department with a severe chest pain of 30 minutes’ duration. Her chest pain was retrosternal with no radiation and persisted continuously throughout the admission time. She described the pain as heaviness in her chest. The pain had no relation to exertion and was not relieved with rest. Additionally, it was neither positional nor pleuritic. There were no other accompanying symptoms. In her past medical history, she had an episode of cardiac arrest 3 months earlier, following an episode of a chest pain similar to her current pain. On that occasion, cardiopulmonary resuscitation was successful, coronary angiography was normal, and an ICD was implanted. She had no history of any previous medical disease, allergy, atherosclerosis risk factors, or smoking, and nor did she consume any drugs. She had a low socioeconomic status. During her physical examination, the patient was agitated and diaphoretic. She had a blood pressure of 80/50 mmHg, a heart rate of 70 bpm, an elevated jugular venous pulse, and normal breath sounds. No murmur was heard on heart auscultation, and the radial pulses were narrow and weak. Her electrocardiography revealed a normal sinus rhythm with an ST-segment elevation in the inferior leads, leads V3–V5, and leads V3R–V5R, along with an ST-segment depression in leads I and aVL ().
During the patient’s initial monitoring in the cardiopulmonary resuscitation unit in the emergency department, her systolic blood pressure and heart rate dropped to 50 mmHg and 45 bpm, respectively. Bedside echocardiography showed a left ventricular ejection fraction of 20%, with no pericardial effusion or mechanical complication. Intravenous atropine (0.5 mg) along with intravenous saline was administered. Due to profound hemodynamic instability, the patient was immediately transferred to the cardiac catheterization unit, where urgent coronary angiography revealed diffuse and severe stenoses in the entire coronary artery tree (). The left coronary artery was selected with an