The patient was a 55-year-old male entrepreneur, who had been experiencing pain of moderate intensity in the mid third of his left thigh for approximately 6 days. He sought emergency care at a hospital in response to a sudden increase in the intensity of the pain combined with swelling at the site of pain. He had a history of smoking equating to approximately 37 pack years. He did not have any other comorbidities. On physical examination he was slightly pale, with tachycardia (120 bpm) and blood pressure at 100 x 70 mmHg. Physical examination by segments was unremarkable for the head and neck, thorax, and abdomen. Vascular examination of the right lower limb found normal auscultation and visual inspection results, with all pulses present and normal. The left lower limb was well-perfused, but there was ecchymosis and a pulsatile swelling between the mid and distal thirds of the thigh, in the anteromedial region ( a). Inspection of the left foot also revealed signs of distal microembolization ( b) and popliteal and distal pulses were absent.
Ultrasonography of the left thigh showed an aneurysmal dilatation of the SFA measuring 5.8 x 5.3 cm and with associated mural thrombi and perivascular accumulations compatible with a ruptured aneurysm ( ). Since angiotomography was not available at the service providing care, the decision was taken to perform emergency surgical treatment.
During the procedure, extensive hematoma was observed involving subcutaneous and muscle tissues in the anteromedial region of the thigh. Once this had been removed, the ruptured SFA aneurysm could be seen ( 3b). There were no obvious signs of active infection. Proximal and distal ligatures were performed and then the aneurysm was resected and samples collected for anatomopathological and microbiological analyses. Revascularization of the limb was then accomplished by interposition of the contralateral great saphenous vein in reverse, with end-to-side anastomosis – taking into consideration the diameter of the femoral artery and the significant destruction of its walls