The patient was a 39-year-old female who had experienced a gradually progressive decrement in visual acuity of the right eye during the past 2 months. Her medical history indicated that she had been treated for breast carcinoma, which had been originally diagnosed in her right breast 6 years ago, with no signs of metastases. Histopathological evaluation confirmed invasive ductal adenocarcinoma of the breast. She had been since treated by mastectomy and adjuvant chemotherapy with docetaxel until 3 years ago when her treatment with oral tamoxifen was begun. The treatment limited the neoplastic process and there were no clinical or radiological signs of progressive disease during these years.
The patient had no significant medical history. She was taking tamoxifen. She had no history of alcohol or tobacco use and there was no environmental toxic exposure. Her family history was negative for breast cancer and other diseases.
Office examination revealed a best-corrected visual acuity of counting fingers at 2 meters in the right eye and 10/10 in the left eye (by Snellen E chart from six meters). There was a 3+ relative afferent papillary defect in the right eye. Extraocular motility was intact in both eyes. Intraocular pressures were within normal limits in both eyes in applanation tonometry. Color plate testing results (by Ishihara’s color plate test) was 1/14 for the right eye and 14/14 for the left eye. Anterior segment examination was unremarkable. Dilated fundus examination of the right eye demonstrated 1+ cells in the vitreous, optic disc swelling, obscuration of vessels and infiltration by a large yellowish mass that disrupted the normal structure of the optic disc, and flame-shaped hemorrhages in the peripapillary (PP) region (). Fundus examination of the left eye was normal. Humphrey visual field testing in the right eye showed an altitudinal defect with enlarged blind spot (). PP optical coherence tomography (OCT) demonstrated significant retinal nerve fiber layer thickening in all four quadrants in