We present the case of a 42-year-old man who presented to the emergency department with a complaint of abdominal pain and diarrhea for 3 days. The abdominal pain started in the periumbilical region and was shifted to the right lower quadrant of the abdomen. The pain started gradually and had been progressing in severity. He described the pain as a stabbing in nature. It was exacerbated by movement and food intake. The pain was partially relieved by oral analgesic medications like paracetamol. The pain was associated with low-grade fever and decreased appetite. The patient also complained of diarrhea with five bowel motions/day. The stools were watery with no mucus or blood. He reported that diarrhea developed after he received an oral antibiotic therapy (cefuroxime) for a recent upper respiratory tract infection.
The past medical history of the patient was remarkable for diabetes mellitus that was well-controlled with oral antidiabetic agents. He did not undergo any previous abdominal surgeries. He had a smoking history of 15 pack-years. He had never drunk alcohol before. He worked as a taxi driver. The family history was unremarkable for any inherited gastrointestinal disorders.
Upon examination, the patient appeared sick. He was not pale, jaundiced, or cyanosed. Vital signs revealed tachycardia (115 bpm), low-grade fever (37.5℃), normal respiratory rate (14 bpm), and maintained blood pressure (122/80 mmHg). The oxygen saturation was 99% on room air. Abdominal examination revealed a soft abdomen with diffuse tenderness. However, the tenderness was more pronounced in the right iliac fossa with a positive rebound sign. Further, the Rovsing sign was positive. Initial laboratory investigation revealed elevated leukocyte count and elevated inflammatory markers, including erythrocyte sedimentation rate and C-reactive protein. The renal and hepatic profiles were within the normal limits (Table ).
In light of the aforementioned clinical information, the patient was diagnosed as having acute appendicitis. A CT scan with intravenous