A 38-year-old Caucasian woman, 35 weeks into her first pregnancy, presented to the emergency department for acute right-sided hip pain which precluded weight-bearing. Her right leg was shortened and externally rotated - there was no bruising or evidence of trauma.
The patient’s history was significant for hereditary thrombophilia (Factor V Leiden) and secondary anemia. Hip radiography revealed an unstable, displaced, right-sided femoral neck fracture with no evidence of osteonecrosis (Figure ). The decision to administer radiography, in this case, was based on the American College of Radiology guidelines, which cite an absence of in-utero deterministic effects of ionizing radiation effects after 27 weeks of gestation. Unfortunately, it was not possible to evaluate the symptoms of the patient with MRI at this time due to the coronavirus disease pandemic-induced stress on the healthcare system of our country.
The patient denied falls or trauma during the pregnancy, nor was there any history of smoking, alcohol abuse, use of glucocorticoids, or presence of rheumatologic/oncologic disease. Additionally, the patient was not malnourished, she underwent routine antenatal care, and took multivitamins. Serologic tests for inflammatory markers, as lab tests for serum calcium, phosphate, alkaline phosphatase, parathyroid hormone, vitamin D, and D-dimer returned normal.
During multidisciplinary rounds, it was decided that delaying surgery was the best course of action out of fear of causing either mechanical or fluoroscopy-induced damage to the fetus during total hip arthroplasty. Five days later the patient experienced premature rupture of membranes, which was managed with emergency cesarean section (C-section) - no complications were encountered and a healthy 2300 g female was successfully delivered. Three days later the patient was transferred to our orthopedic surgery department for the treatment of the fracture. The significant degree of displacement (grade IV) of the fracture lasting over one week precluded open reduction with internal fixation due to fears of femoral head necrosis. During our