A 23-year-old Asian man was referred to the ER of Xiamen Chang Gung Memorial Hospital with a 1-day history of right-sided chest pain that had been aggravated for 1 hour. He had no known medical illnesses and was well until the evening prior to presentation, at which time he developed obvious right-sided chest pain radiating to his ipsilateral shoulder with persistent chest tightness. This tightness was described as sticking in nature, significantly worse on deep inspiration and with movement, and relieved by leaning forward or lying down. There was an associated dry cough but no hemoptysis. There was no history of trauma, injury, difficulty in breathing, or palpitations. He was tall and thin and described himself as otherwise quite healthy. He had never previously been admitted to a hospital. He reported no significant chronic medical history, such as primary hypertension, any type of heart disease, disturbed microcirculation, peripheral neuropathy, diabetes mellitus, an impaired immune system, malignancies, leukemia, the long-term administration of corticosteroids, liver cirrhosis, renal failure, urinary tract infection, or hemodialysis. He also reported no history of infection, such as tuberculosis, any type of hepatitis, or acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS). There was no prior history of traumas, blood transfusions, surgical procedures, or other serious events in his medical history. He had not lived in an epidemic area and had no history of toxin or radioactive exposure. He denied a personal or family history of bleeding diathesis but reported a 10-year history of smoking 8–10 cigarettes per day. He was an office worker by occupation. He had experienced similar symptoms on one occasion 4 years previously. No abnormalities were detected at that time, and his symptoms resolved.
A physical examination (PE) revealed a young man who was awake and alert but in mild to moderate painful distress. His respiratory rate was 22–26 breaths/minute with an oxygen saturation of 97%. His pulse was 96 beats