A 49-year-old Caucasian woman was referred to a general surgeon by her primary care physician for a right nipple lesion. She reports no past medical history, and social history is notable for tobacco use. The patient stated that she first noticed a small, yellow, and fleshy bump on her right nipple approximately two years prior. She became concerned due to its rapid growth in the last year. Four months prior, she visited her primary care provider who performed a shave biopsy of the lesion. Initial pathology results suggested squamous cell carcinoma, but this was thought to be discordant with the clinical picture. At consultation, she reported that her right breast had also started feeling hot and tender for two weeks duration. On examination, her right breast was erythematous and rigid with a 2.2 cm lesion consuming the right nipple. Her nipple also drained yellow pus. The patient was placed on a course of antibiotics due to concerns for an abscess.
An MRI was ordered to investigate possible underlying breast malignancy. Results of the MRI showed no solid mass underlying the nipple. A wedge biopsy of the nipple was performed to confirm the initial shave biopsy pathology (). Pathology showed verrucous histologic features with chronic inflammation and underlying abscess with concerns for a possible cutaneous malignancy. Specifically, there was marked papillomatosis with hypergranulomatosis between the papillae as well as a lack of granules at the papillary surfaces. Immunohistochemical testing was also positive for HPV L1 capsid protein. Because the initial shave biopsy showed SCC with positive margins, this clinical picture suggested that an inadequate sample was taken during the wedge biopsy. After consultation of literature, excision with wide margins was determined to be appropriate for removal of the lesion.
The patient underwent a wide excision of the right nipple-areola complex for removal of the growth. A 6.2 cm x 3.2 cm skin ellipse was excised encompassing the 2.2 cm nipple lesion. On final histologic examination, the lesion was found to be a large tumor with ver