A 60-year-old male was referred to our department, complaining about gradually worsening hoarseness, during the last 8 month period. Occasional dysphagia and foreign-body sensation were also reported upon referral. The patient was a heavy smoker for more than 20 years, reporting an average of 20 cigarettes per day. Alcohol was also a factor, and although no real alcohol abuse or indulgence was noted, the patient was a rather frequent user.
Medical history only revealed arterial hypertension under treatment with beta blockers. Haematological and biochemical tests did not show any significant abnormalities.
Physical examination included a full head and neck examination, complemented with flexible fiberoptic laryngoscopy. Typical ear, nose and throat examination did not reveal any abnormal findings and neck palpation was negative. However, fiberoptic laryngoscopy revealed a lesion affecting both vocal cords and anterior commissure, while vocal cord mobility appeared impaired. On these grounds, a cervicothoracic and upper abdomen computed tomography (CT) scan with intravenous gadolinium was decided and the patient was scheduled for direct microlaryngoscopy and biopsy of the lesion under general anaesthesia.
Imaging confirmed the laryngeal lesion, yet it also indicated a second lesion about 2 cm below the inferior end of the primary one, arising somewhere between the first and second tracheal ring. Intermediate tissue appeared grossly normal (). No signs of enlarged cervical lymph nodes were noted and laryngeal cartilages showed no abnormal findings.
On the other hand, histopathological examination after biopsy of the lesion under general anaesthesia confirmed the diagnosis of squamous cell carcinoma. The lesion was carefully mapped and proved to be a glottic carcinoma affecting the anterior commissure and appearing in strong correlation with the thyroid cartilage. The lesion infiltrated the left and the first tertile of the right vocal cord. No subglottic extension was noted. In this context, the patient was informed and consent for radical surgical therapy was obtained.
The patient underwent total laryngectomy and wide excision of the trachea which included the second tumour within safe limits (