A 71-year-old Caucasian female presented to the ED after unremitting bilateral lower abdominal pain of acute onset. She also noted slowly worsening, diffuse abdominal pain. She describes the pain as sharp in nature and unrelenting. Past medical history is significant for C. difficile colitis in a previous hospital admission. Past surgical history was significant for an appendectomy. The patient’s father and brother both have been diagnosed with colorectal carcinoma. She denies any history of alcohol, tobacco, or illicit drug use.
On initial presentation, all vitals were found to be within normal parameters. The patient’s abdomen was soft, nondistended, but with exquisite tenderness in the bilateral lower quadrants with the addition of diffuse subjective abdominal pain. Laboratory testing was significant for a leukocytosis of 18.6 bil/L. CT was performed revealing two pelvic fluid collections with peripheral enhancement in addition to a mild pneumoperitoneum. Based on physical examination and lack of SIRS criteria, the patient was admitted for recurrent C. difficile infection and treated with both broad spectrum antibiotics. A consultation was placed to interventional radiology and the patient underwent CT-guided drainage of multiple pelvic abscesses which were later positive for clostridium species. The patient began to progress, however, then had recurrence of severe abdominal pain coupled with elevating leukocytosis. At this time, repeat CT demonstrated interval development of small pockets of portal venous air in addition to hypodense lesions in the left lobe of the liver with partial enhancement as shown in Figure . Due to the rapid development of these lesions, vascular portal duplex was performed revealing thrombus within a hepatic structure with present blood flow, concerning for a partially thrombosed PsA versus arterioportal shunt as shown in Figure .
Multiple interdisciplinary discussions were conducted between vascular surgery, internal medicine, and the interventional radiology team. Based on the current literature and the location of this PsA, the patient was consented for and underwent endovascular intervention. The interventional