This patient was a generally healthy 62-year-old male with a left lobe complex nodule within a nontoxic multinodular goiter that had been enlarging for approximately 3 years. In 2015, the patient had a FNAB reported as benign, BC II. Because of continued growth, he had a second FNA biopsy approximately six months later reported as a Hürthle cell neoplasm or suspicious for a Hürthle cell neoplasm, BC IV with Oncocytic / Hürthle cells dispersed mostly singly and in small fragments in a background of lysed blood. CKAE1/AE3, TTF-1, and thyroglobulin immunostains were positive (). Molecular testing with ThyroSeq® v2 revealed an absence of gene mutations or fusions but overexpression of the MET gene with an uncertain increased risk of malignancy. After repeat ultrasound imaging, the nodule had grown from 4.9 to 6.0 cm over the course of 1 year. He was euthyroid with negative anti-thyroid antibodies. There was no family history of thyroid cancer or known radiation exposures in his youth. He had no obstructive symptoms despite the size of the mass and denied shortness of breath, dysphagia, neck pain, neck pressure, or recent voice changes. His weight had been stable and appetite good. His past medical history was significant for a retinal detachment, hypertension, and inguinal hernia with a surgical history limited to eye surgery and hernia repair. He denied tobacco or alcohol use. On exam, the patient had an enlarged, firm thyroid gland with the left thyroid lobe causing significant tracheal deviation to the right. A neck CT scan demonstrated a markedly enlarged left thyroid lobe (7.2 cm in sagittal height) causing significant rightward tracheal deviation, minimal tracheal compression, and slight early substernal extension (). He had multiple opinions from both endocrinologists and surgeons with various recommendations from left thyroid lobectomy to total thyroidectomy. The patient had initially contemplated a hemithyroidectomy due to concerns for voice impairment that could impact