The patient is a 57-year-old male with an extensive smoking history who underwent right upper lobe lobectomy in May 2012 for a clinical stage I adenocarcinoma of the lung. He was found to have microscopic ipsilateral mediastinal adenopathy. He received adjuvant chemotherapy with pemetrexed and cisplatin followed by radiation therapy for his pathologic stage IIIA (pT2aN2M0) adenocarcinoma of the lung. A positron emission tomography (PET) scan in February 2013 did not show any evidence of malignancy.
One year after completion of adjuvant chemotherapy, in October 2013, the patient developed headaches. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the brain was consistent with four intracranial metastases. PET/CT scan revealed several subcentimeter metastatic pulmonary nodules. EGFR/ALK/ROS1 testing at that time did not reveal any targetable mutations. He underwent whole brain radiation therapy.
In the next two years, the patient had progression of disease (POD) in the lung through several lines of chemotherapy. He also developed CNS progression with three new lesions in December 2014, for which he underwent stereotactic radiation therapy (SRS). Six months later, the patient developed two more intracranial lesions for which he again received SRS. New intracranial subcentimeter metastatic disease was identified in September 2015 which was not amenable to further radiation. Immunotherapy with the checkpoint inhibitor nivolumab was initiated in November 2015 ( and ).
Eosinophil counts dating back to 1998 had always been within normal limits except for a brief period of mild increased eosinophilia after adjuvant chemotherapy in 2012 which spontaneously resolved. Four weeks after initiation of nivolumab, his absolute eosinophil count was noted to be elevated at 2.86 × 109/L; all other hematopoietic cell lines remained unaffected. He had denied any travel within the previous five years and denied any exposure to any known allergens, new products, or new medications. He was asymptomatic, and on physical examination, there was no evidence of skin rash or splenomegaly.
On a follow