We present the unique case of a 28-year-old male patient displaying a complex clinical picture with mental retardation and various behavioural problems since birth. Symptoms of the autism spectrum comprising difficulties in social interaction and communication are reported since childhood. Additionally, he suffers from auto-aggressive tics in terms of beating himself with objects against his head and lower jaw, head movement tics and simple vocal tics. Striking dysmorphic features are not evident.
Except a one-time bleeding in week 20 of gestation, pregnancy had been without any complications. No infections, medication, smoking, or intake of alcohol or drugs during pregnancy was reported. The patient was delivered in week 40 of gestation with the help of a ventouse due to irregular cardiac activity. During delivery there were minor signs of birth asphyxia. Birth weight was 2.900 g (25th percentile), birth length 51 cm (50th percentile) and head circumference 33 cm (<3rd percentile). During infancy a prominent frontal fissure was conspicuous. A premature ossification of the sagittal fissure could not be detected.
The patient showed psychomotor retardation: he walked alone only by 26 months and was not able to sit alone falling over to one side without shoring up even at the age of 2. Furthermore, tics in terms of eye blinking as well as a muscular hypotonia were described. The patient’s parents reported early autistic features such as difficulties in social communication and interaction with avoiding eye contact and poor interest in social interaction. Development of speech was delayed (first words with 18 months). He refused body contact and demonstrated stereotypic patterns of behaviour such as filling bowls without showing any variations.
When examined at the age of 27 months, the patient presented some special facial features such as synophrys, epicanthus, modelled ears, a deep joined thumb and microcephaly. His weight was 10 kg (3rd percentile), his length 88 cm (25th percentile) and his head circumference 46 cm