A 60-year-old African American female was following up for her chronically elevated alkaline phosphatase levels. She had a history of hypertension, hyperlipidemia, type 2 diabetes mellitus, allergic rhinitis, and chronic lower back pain. Patient has a family history of arthritis, cardiovascular disease, and diabetes mellitus; she denies ever using alcohol or tobacco.
With the onset of elevated alkaline phosphatase level and vague abdominal pain in 2013, an abdominal ultrasound performed in December showed hepatic steatosis. Viral serologies for hepatitis during 2013 were negative, as a gastrointestinal consult was required to determine the need for a liver biopsy. A liver biopsy was subsequently performed, which showed focal mixed micro and macrovesicular steatosis. Portal tracts showed minimal focal chronic inflammation, no significant fibrosis, and no iron deposition.
The vague abdominal pain that she was experiencing waxed and waned for two years. Additionally, the patient experienced some vague chest pain and dyspnea that prompted an echocardiogram in February of 2015, which demonstrated a left ventricle ejection fraction of 44%. Consequently, a left heart catheterization in the following month showed no significant coronary disease with a dilated left ventricle with an ejection fraction of 50%. A 2-year follow-up in July of 2015 showed suspicious cirrhosis by Computed Tomography (CT) scan (), possibly due to granulomatous changes and chronic inflammation. A CT scan was determined to be necessary for our patient because of rising alkaline phosphatase without other explainable etiologies, in addition to the patient's appetite suppression and vague abdominal pains. Patient's weight during this time was 207 lbs (93.89 kg) and was advised to diet and exercise. After 4 months of continuous symptoms, especially with abdominal pain, a laparoscopic cholecystectomy was performed with a liver biopsy that showed subsequent granulomatous changes in September of 2015. The liver biopsy showed coalescing periportal nonnecrotizing epithelioid granulomas with associated multinucleated giant cells and chronic inflammation. The chronic and patchy inflammation is representative of the granulomatous hepatitis, despite not having elevated trans