A 66-year-old Hispanic female presented with vague abdominal pain and exertional chest pain. She had a ten-year history of worsening epigastric pain attributed to gastritis that was treated with Dexilant. A general physical exam was done and did not reveal any significant abnormalities; she also denied any fevers, chills, weight loss/gain, or change in bowel habits. Environmental history was noncontributory as she denied extensive sun-exposure or use of tanning beds and reported that she regularly would use sunscreen with a 30 SPF. Still, there was an extensive past medical history for anemia, diabetes mellitus type II, coronary artery disease, asthma, hypertension, hyperlipidemia, hemorrhoids, and osteoarthritis. She also had a broad surgical history, involving a coronary artery stent in the left anterior descending artery [2016], percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty [2016], tubal ligation [1985], cholecystectomy [2007], bladder prolapse repair [2012], rectal prolapse repair [2012], hysterectomy [2012], and total right knee replacement [2013].
There is no report of primary tobacco use; however, she does report an extensive second-hand smoke exposure as a result of her biological father. Her family history is significant for multiple cancers, with her father dying of cancer related complications from a head and neck malignancy at the age of 65. The patient's sister died of breast cancer at the age of 44 and half paternal sister also died of breast cancer at the age of 38. Lastly, her brother died of colon cancer at the age of 70 and her mother's death at the age of 67 was due to a myocardial infarction unrelated to cancer. Interestingly, her eldest daughter was diagnosed with melanoma found in a cutaneous lesion, in 2016. Her physical exam did not reveal any concerning skin lesions or palpable abdominal lesions and her vitals were stable.
A near total gastrectomy was performed and multiple adhesions from prior surgeries were divided at the beginning of the procedure. A thorough surgical