A patient, 35-year-old female, came to our clinic because of severe vertigo and paroxysmal headaches for about 2 years. She mostly suffered from vertigo at night with multiple vomiting spells and bilateral tinnitus, which would last the entire night. During the period of vertigo, she also had a headache at the right temporal site, which was present a kind of pulsatile pain and could last several hours; this caused nausea and the inability to fall asleep. Prior to the onset of the vertigo and headache, she also had a visual aura with wave sight that lasted 10 min. Approximately 10 of these attacks were trigged by loud noises or bright lights, accompanied with symptoms such as chest tightness, tachypnea, and blushing. The migraine attacks were mostly accompanied by vertigo, becoming more severe during vestibular episodes. Those symptoms continued to worsen over the next week from the initial onset. During this time, the patient suffered from vertigo for several hours daily, and also suffered from repeated vomiting, numbness on the right side of the face, and tinnitus in the ear. The attacks of vertigo had no connection to changing body position. The headache occurred on the right side with visual aura expressing as fortification spectrum during vertigo. Physical examination found dysesthesia around the right side of the forehead and unsteady gait.
The patient’s clinical history revealed a more frequent occurrence of migraines during the period of pregnancy. The headache was usually a throbbing, unilateral temporal pain for 20 min each time. It would result in nausea and vomiting, which led to functional limitation in daily activities and led to bed rest to alleviate her symptoms. Meanwhile, the patient also had a visual aura with waves of light that lasting approximately 10 min. She had no family history regarding her illness, history of drug use, allergy, smoking, or drinking.
A neurological examination showed clockwise rotary nystagmus when she gazed to the left side, and an abnormal