A 62-year-old man, with a large nonhealing ulcer of the lower lip since 1 month, was admitted to our clinic. The ulcer presented initially as an inflammatory papule, which gradually transformed into an ulcer with elevated borders smeared with serous fluid. The patient received outpatient treatment consisting of tablet cephalexin (500 mg QID for 7 days) and tablet acyclovir (400 mg 5 times a day for 4 days); however, the patient's clinical condition failed to improve. He denied any history of physical or chemical injuries. However, for the past 4 years, he was suffering from a psychiatry disorder and his drug history included tablet sertraline 50 mg daily. He was not a smoker and did not use any illicit drugs. His other medical history was insignificant. The extra-oral examination on admission revealed no abnormality. However, the intra-oral examination revealed an indurated painless oval ulcer measuring 2 × 1.2 cm in diameter with elevated borders in the central portion of the lower lip with a fibrinous base. The vermilion border adjacent to the ulcer showed desquamation. He had poor oral hygiene with generalized stains, attrition, and carious teeth. The local lymph nodes accessible to physical examination were not enlarged (Figure ). Routine laboratory evaluations did not show any significant abnormal findings. The enzyme-linked immuno-sorbent assay (ELISA) for serum antibodies to HSV-1 and HSV-2 and the rapid plasma reagin (RPR) test for syphilis were both negative. Taking the history into account, a clinical differential diagnosis of traumatic and malignant ulcer was made.
A deep tissue biopsy was done from the lesion under local anesthesia and sent to two independent pathology laboratories for routine histopathological examination and was stained with hematoxylin and eosin. The histopathology findings revealed ulceration in the epidermis sloughed stratified squamous epithelium with granulation tissue in the dermis composed of fibroblastic and vascular proliferation with a dense, diffuse infiltration of lymphohisti