A 41-year-old white woman with a past medical history of endometriosis presented to our clinic for her annual examination. She wanted to discuss cyclic rectal bleeding after having undergone a total hysterectomy with bilateral salpingectomy and left oophorectomy 1 year prior. She stated that, over the past 6–8 months, she had been experiencing bloody bowel movements for 1 week each month, in the same pattern as her previous menstrual cycles. She also experienced sharp, lower abdominal pain with these bloody bowel movements, similar to the pain from her endometriosis in the past. She described a mild to moderate amount of bleeding and noted that the blood was typically mixed with stool. The blood was dark red, which she believed looked very similar to her menses. She reported normal bowel movements the other 3 weeks of the month. Prior to her hysterectomy, she completed a colonoscopy which showed no transmural implants. Previous treatment for endometriosis included oral contraceptives which gave no significant symptomatic relief. Her other past medical history included hypertension for which she was taking extended-release metoprolol 50 mg in the morning and 25 mg in the evening before bed. She had never smoked tobacco and consumed alcohol occasionally. At that time, she worked as a systems engineer for information technology.
She had the onset of menarche at age 10 with heavy periods until age 16, at which time she went on oral contraceptive pills. At age 37, she gave birth to twins at 29 weeks of gestation via cesarean section without complications. Her other surgical history included a tonsillectomy at age 3, cervical conization at age 22, rhinoplasty at age 26, exploratory laparoscopy for excision of stage IV endometriosis with en bloc excision, left ovarian cystectomy, and bilateral ovarian suspension at age 34, as well as total hysterectomy, as mentioned above.
She denied any family history of endometriosis, although she noted that her mother had heavy periods prior to giving birth to our patient. Her mother also suffered from asthma. Her father had heart disease and her grandparen