A 51-year-old Japanese man who was born and raised in Japan and did not have any underlying medical condition presented with a rectal mass. He underwent endoscopic biopsy of the lesion, and the histopathological report showed spindle-shaped tumor cells with mild cytological atypia. Immunohistochemical analysis revealed that the tumor was positive for CD117 (c-kit) and CD34, leading to the diagnosis of a rectal GIST. He underwent colectomy after shrinking the tumor with 400 mg/day of imatinib for 9 months. After completion of treatment, annual follow-up computed tomography (CT) scans showed no local recurrence or distant internal organ metastases. His postoperative course was good and he could continue working as a judo therapist. There was nothing notable in his medical history, except for the rectal GIST, and he did not take any medication after surgery. His family history was uneventful and he did not smoke tobacco or drink alcohol.
Although he was asymptomatic, a CT scan 10 years after surgery revealed a destructive osteolytic lesion in the L3 vertebral body (Fig. ). CT-guided biopsy confirmed the lesions to be GIST metastases. His vital signs were stable with blood pressure 128/64, pulse rate 68 beats/minute, and temperature 36.3 °C. Sensations were normal in both lower limbs. His muscle strength was grade M5 throughout (Medical Research Council Scale of Muscle Strength), and deep tendon reflexes were normal. Laboratory testing showed a normal complete blood count (CBC). His liver and renal functions were sufficient, and the electrolytes were normal. As there were no metastases in vital organs and the tumor was located only in the anterior column of the vertebra, en bloc corpectomy of the L3 vertebral body was performed to provide local cure of the tumor and to prevent devastating sequelae of neural compression.
En bloc corpectomy via bilateral anterolateral retroperitoneal approaches was performed. Major vascular structures and the psoas muscles were retracted to expose the vertebral body and adjacent