A 35-year-old Greek female patient, gravida four and para two, presented to our breast unit department due to a non-palpable breast lesion which was revealed via ultrasonic examination, with malignant ultrasonographical features. Her personal medical history and her psychosocial history were uneventful and Pap Smear tests were up to date and all negative. She was non-smoker and consumed alcohol only in social occasions. Her body mass index (BMI) was 30, 48 Kg/m []. Because of her mother’s breast cancer history (diagnosed with breast cancer at the age of 50, but never tested for BRCA), the patient was followed up via transvaginal ultrasonography and breast ultrasonic examination every six months since 2004.
Upon arrival, physical examination of her breasts did not reveal any palpable mass. Breast ultrasonography showed a hypoechoic lesion of 0,9 × 0,8 cm located in the lower inner quadrant, while breast magnetic resonance imaging confirmed the suspicious and possible malignant finding on her right breast (MRM BIRADS IV) (). The chest x-ray test was normal. Her laboratory workup was all normal.
Under general anesthesia, a total excision of the lesion (which had been marked via a hook wire) was performed by a gynecologist specialized in breast surgery with 6 years’ experience in breast surgical procedures. The normal tissue of the breast, the nipple and the areola were conserved. The excised mass was almost 1 cm in diameter. The contralateral breast was normal. Ultrasound guided biopsy was not performed because BIRADS IV was overestimated (not necessarily malignancy). There were no peri-operative complications and the breast healed well. Post-operatively, the patient was followed up in the breast ward. She was administered antibiotics, fluids and painkillers intravenously. Histology confirmed the ultrasonic diagnosis, revealing a central low grade invasive ductal carcinoma and a peripheral in situ ductal breast carcinoma grade III (). The margins of the resected surgical specimen were negative for cancer cells