A 67-year-old man with a history of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, cerebral vascular accident, necrotizing pancreatitis complicated by pseudocyst requiring splenectomy and heart failure with preserved ejection fraction was transferred to our hospital following one month of treatment for pneumonia. He was a distant alcoholic but had since gone through rehabilitation and admitted to drinking one time per week and smoking four cigarettes a day. He had previously presented to his primary care physician with fever and malaise and was diagnosed with community-acquired pneumonia. He was treated with five days of azithromycin. He continued to worsen, and was admitted to an outside hospital with hypoxemia and right lower lobe pneumonia for which he was started empirically on vancomycin and piperacillin-tazobactam. His hospital course was complicated by respiratory failure requiring intubation for three days and a recurrent exudative right lung loculated effusion that required decortication and placement of a catheter that remained in place for two weeks. All blood and pleural fluid cultures were negative.
On transfer to our hospital for physical rehabilitation, the patient complained of mild shortness of breath. He denied hemoptysis, chest pain, orthopnea, nausea, chills or night sweats. Physical exam was significant for bilateral rhonchi with signs of consolidation in the right lower lobe. His labs were notable for a white blood cell count (WBC) of 17,000 cells/mcl with 87% neutrophils, and a chest radiograph revealed a right middle lobe infiltrate. He was continued on intravenous (IV) vancomycin and piperacillin-tazobactam at admission. Over the next two days his WBC climbed to 21,000 cells/mcl. Computed tomography scan of the chest revealed a right-sided empyema with extensive bilateral airspace disease consistent with severe pneumonia. A new chest tube was placed, which drained dark brown exudative fluid with gram-positive cocci on gram stain. The fluid was cultured and grew E. faecium resistant to ampicillin and vancomycin but sensitive to linezolid