A 66-year-old independently functioning woman presented to the emergency room with an episode of midepigastric and left sternal chest pain. Her medical history included hypertension, hyperlipidemia, glaucoma, and multiple previous episodes of chest pain similar to her current episode that necessitated three separate coronary angiograms which showed no stenotic or occluding lesions in the coronary arteries. The patient described her chest pain as a sensation of burning that started suddenly at 11 pm in the night while she was resting comfortably at home after having dinner. The pain was mild in intensity, nonradiating, and lasted for a few minutes before resolving spontaneously. She denied having any dyspnea, palpitations, dizziness, or loss of consciousness during this episode. She had no history of smoking or illicit drug use. Her home medications included felodipine extended release 5 mg once daily, isosorbide mononitrate extended release 30 mg once daily, atorvastatin 80 mg once daily, losartan 100 mg once daily, hydrochlorothiazide 25 mg once daily, and metoprolol succinate extended release 100 mg once daily. The patient activated emergency medical services immediately after onset of her symptoms, who brought the patient to the emergency room. On arrival in the emergency room, the patient was asymptomatic. Her vital signs were as follows: blood pressure of 168/46 mmHg (right arm, supine position), heart rate of 66/min, respiratory rate of 19/min, and an oral temperature of 97.9 F. An electrocardiogram was obtained which showed a normal sinus cardiac rhythm with a left bundle branch block, possible left ventricular hypertrophy, and T wave inversions in the lateral leads. No ST segment changes were noted (). There were no prior electrocardiograms available for comparison. Her laboratory data included a cardiac troponin level of 0.15 ng/ml. Follow-up cardiac troponin levels obtained 6 and 12 hours later were 4 ng/ml and 9 ng/ml, respectively. The patient continued to be asymptomatic during this time, and a follow-up EKG