In late 2016, a 61 year old non-smoking female presented with exertional shortness of breath, mild pedal edema, distended neck veins, and a recent weight gain of 15 lbs over the prior 2 weeks. It was initially suspected that the patient was experiencing pulmonary embolism based on her clinical presentation and elevated D-dimer, but further testing revealed that she was experiencing cardiac tamponade with mild pulmonary hypertension and heart failure. Pericardiocentesis was performed without definitive diagnosis. In February 2017, the patient exhibited worsening respiratory symptoms without fever, hemoptysis, sputum production, B symptoms, or extremity edema. Baseline chest PET-CT images were reviewed by radiologists at both UCLA Oncology and Texas Tech University Health Sciences Center, demonstrating a large middle mediastinal mass encasing the main pulmonary artery, with pericardial and left pleural effusion (Figure & Figure ). Scattered pulmonary nodules and hypodense lesions were identified in the right lobe of the liver, consistent with a diagnosis of metastatic disease (Figure ). Biopsy of the mediastinal mass revealed a high grade undifferentiated malignant neoplasm composed of highly proliferative (ki67 staining ~50%) pleomorphic anaplastic epithelioid malignant cells with large areas of necrosis and fibrosis. Immunohistochemistry revealed strong antigenicity for CD31 and CD34, and weak antigenicity for D2-40 and Factor VIII indicating a diagnosis of angiosarcoma that was corroborated at both UC San Diego Health and MD Anderson.
Conventional treatment options were recommended, however the patient declined these based on low reported survival rates, and instead, requested the non-selective beta blocker propranolol as a single agent therapy. In May 2017, 40 mg/kg propranolol was administered daily and PET-CT scans were performed at regular intervals to assess the response of the tumor to propranolol. Assessment of tumor response was based on 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) tracer uptake and measurements/assessments of the primary tumor and distant metastases. After 12 months of propranolol as a single agent therapy, significant