A 67-year-old male chronic smoker with medical history significant for chronic obstructive pulmonary disease was admitted for imaging guided biopsy of a 1.2 cm left lower lobe lung nodule found recently on a computed tomography (CT) scan of the chest. The nodule was highly suspicious for primary lung malignancy. The patient was placed in a prone position and lung parenchyma in the posterior lateral left chest was visualized. Under CT guidance, a 19-gauge guide was advanced into the left lower lobe and two separate 20-gauge core biopsy specimens were obtained from the mass. There was no hemorrhage or immediate post procedure complication. However, towards the end of the procedure, the patient started complaining of sudden onset of chest pain and became unconscious. No palpable pulses were identified. A code blue was called and cardiopulmonary resuscitation was begun according to Advanced Cardiovascular Life Support guidelines. The patient subsequently demonstrated ventricular fibrillation which responded to defibrillation shock and epinephrine. The patient had three cycles of chest compressions, one dose of epinephrine, and a shock of 200 J. He was successfully resuscitated and intubated for mechanical ventilation. A CT scan of the chest was obtained immediately after the resuscitation and it demonstrated development of a small anechoic area in the left cardiac ventricle consistent with air embolus (Figure ).
The vital signs recorded at the time were as follows: blood pressure of 130/80 mmHg, pulse rate of 90 beats per minute, respiratory rate of 18 breaths per minute, and normal oxygen saturation of 92% on room air. The patient was admitted to the intensive care unit. Bedside transthoracic echocardiogram (TTE) did not reveal evidence of an air embolus. Additionally, no cardiac wall motion abnormalities were noted. The patient remained hemodynamically stable for 24 hours, and he was successfully weaned off from the mechanical ventilator next day and discharged home in a stable condition.