A 42-year-old male presented to the Department of Head and Neck Surgery of a tertiary oncological centre because of right mandibular swelling and trismus. The patient had already been admitted to a secondary care hospital 3 months earlier with complaints of right mandibular discomfort and slight tumefaction. A biopsy was then performed and the diagnosis of ameloblastic carcinoma was made histologically. The patient was otherwise healthy with no significant past medical history, including alcohol, smoking or tobacco abuse.
A complete head and neck examination revealed a painless, firm and fixed right mandibular mass with no cutaneous inflammatory signs. No ulcers or mucosal lesions were found in the oral cavity. Laboratory evaluation, chest radiograph and respiratory function tests were unremarkable. The patient underwent bronchofibroscopy, which revealed only mild laryngeal hyperaemia.
Both neck CT () and MRI () were performed, showing a large, solid tumour arising from the ramus and posterior body of the right mandible. The lesion extended to the surrounding soft tissues, with invasion of the masseter and medial pterygoid muscles and caused bulging of the buccal mucosa. The soft tissue component was hypointense on T1 weighted and hyperintense on T2 weighted MR images and showed avid enhancement after gadolinium administration on MR examination. CT scan disclosed striking sclerosis and irregularity of the mandibular ramus with some gas bubbles inside the medullary cavity and an expansive lytic component in the posterior body and angle with some bone-forming matrix inside. Prominent periosteal reaction was also identified, particularly in the outer cortical surface of the mandibular ramus with the typical pattern of a ruptured Codman triangle. No associated cystic lesion was found in the mandible. No enlarged lymph nodes were detected and the evaluation of the remaining cervical spaces was unremarkable. A thoracic CT scan was also performed, with no parenchymal lesions.
The patient underwent a right hemimandibulectomy and ipsilateral cervical lymph node dissection. Surgical resection also included the right submandibular gland and a segment of buccal