A 55-year-old man with a history of extensive alcohol and tobacco use presented with a 2-month history of a progressively enlarging, 5-cm ulcerative, and painful midline tongue lesion extending to the floor of mouth resulting in an anterior tongue cleft. This lesion was associated with unintentional weight loss, left otalgia, and submandibular swelling. Bilateral nontender palpable lymphadenopathy in levels I, II, and III were present.
Prior biopsies by an otolaryngologist in private practice did not demonstrate carcinoma but were otherwise inconclusive with reactive inflammatory changes. However, a positron emission tomography scan revealed hypermetabolic lesions of the anterior tongue as well as lymph nodes bilaterally in levels I, II, and III suggestive of malignancy (). The assessment was a likely T3/4N2cM0 tongue squamous cell carcinoma. He underwent a panendoscopy with biopsies and a physical examination under anesthesia for surgical planning. Biopsy results again did not yield carcinoma but showed granulomatous inflammation without organisms present.
A multidisciplinary tumor board recommended a rheumatologic workup and an excisional lymph node biopsy. Lymph node biopsy results demonstrated noncaseating granulomatous inflammation with no malignancy (), while laboratory results demonstrated markedly elevated ACE (angiotensin converting enzyme) levels. These findings suggested an atypical case of sarcoidosis, and the patient was referred for pulmonary consultation. The patient had developed scattered erythematous macules involving the extremities, palms, soles, and trunk. Laboratory evaluation demonstrated T pallidum immunoglobulin G antibodies present with a reflex RPR (rapid plasma reagin) titer of 1:512. The lymph node biopsy sample was then analyzed with immunohistochemistry (IHC) revealing spirochetes (). The patient was diagnosed with tertiary syphilis and started on doxycycline 100 mg twice daily for 30 days because of a severe penicillin allergy. After receiving treatment, the patient came back to our clinic with his tongue lesion healing well but with a persistent anterior tongue cleft (). The patient has not obliged with further laboratory evaluations to reche