A 48-year-old Caucasian man presented to the Neuro-Ophthalmology Department of the Rothschild Ophthalmic Foundation in June 2016 for decreased vision, transient visual obscuration, pulsatile tinnitus, and headaches. His symptoms had been progressively worsening for the previous 7 months. The patient was a pharmacist and was not overweight. He had a history of UC in 2002 that was diagnosed during the workup of chronic diarrhea. The patient did not have any medication for UC. He did not smoke, nor did he use recreational drugs. On examination, best-corrected visual acuity was 20/40 OD and 20/20 OS. Eyelid examination was unremarkable. The pupils were equal and reactive. There was no relative afferent pupillary defect. Ocular movements were full and he was orthophoric in all gaze directions. Dilated fundus examination showed retinal folds between the macula and the optic disk and bilateral grade-2 optic disc swelling (Fig. ). Visual field testing revealed enlarged blind spots and diffusely decreased visual field sensitivity in both eyes (Fig. ). Ocular ultrasonography revealed enlarged optic nerve sheaths. Brain MRI ruled out brain tumor and venous thrombosis. There were signs of ICH including empty sella and bilateral lateral venous sinus stenosis. Lumbar puncture showed CSF opening pressure of 26 cm of water with normal CSF contents. The headaches persisted after lumbar puncture. Ancillary testing did not reveal vitamin A deficiency or anemia. Idiopathic ICH was suspected. The patient was treated with a daily dose of 1000 mg of acetazolamide that was gradually tapered. Headaches initially improved but the treatment could not be decreased under 750 mg a day without recurrence of the symptoms.
Extensive review of systems showed that patient still had chronic diarrhea. Because of the history of UC, a colonoscopy was performed in June 2017 and showed active proctitis. Fecal calprotectin level, which has been shown to be correlated to acute inflammation in intestinal inflammatory diseases, was increased to 17