The first patient is a 58-year-old man who was a previous smoker who presented to an outside hospital with abdominal pain and was diagnosed with gallstone pancreatitis. However, despite having a laparoscopic cholecystectomy, he continued to have episodes of pancreatitis yearly for the next 3 years. Computed tomography (CT) scan demonstrated a pancreatic duct dilated throughout its course to a maximum size of 8 mm without a discrete pancreatic mass in the head of the pancreas. Endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography confirmed a dilated pancreatic duct with a suspected filling defect of the common bile duct, after which the patient underwent sphincterotomy and stent placement.
He then presented to our institution for consultation. Further workup with endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) was performed, which also confirmed the dilated pancreatic duct, but noted irregular contour of the duct. In addition, free mucin was seen exiting the main papilla, and there was a papillary growth noted in the pancreatic duct in the head of the pancreas, all of which was consistent with a main duct IPMN (). Preoperative laboratory values, including CA19-9, were within normal limits. Of note, it was unclear if the dilatation of the pancreatic duct was secondary to obstruction from the mass in the pancreatic head or due to main duct IPMN involving the entirety of the duct.
He was scheduled for surgical resection after the stated workup. He was planned for a Whipple procedure (pancreaticoduodenectomy) with possible total pancreatectomy if intraoperatively the main duct was found to be involved by IPMN with high-grade dysplasia. Transection of the pancreatic neck identified cells of high-grade dysplasia free floating near the margin (although exclusive of the margin). In addition, upon probing the pancreatic duct in the tail of the pancreas, the probe did not slide smoothly, suggestive of additional growths in the duct. Due to his young age and high risk of developing pancreatic cancer, a completion pancreatectomy and splenectomy were performed. He was reconstructed in a Roux-en-Y manner. He recovered well