A 69-year-old Caucasian male with a past medical history of hypertension, oromandibular dystonia treated with Botox, and recent diagnosis of gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) presented to his primary care provider noting an area of his left chin that was numb. The area was small and could be covered with 1 finger. He followed up acutely three weeks later with significant dysphagia for solids, but not liquids. He was urgently referred for an upper endoscopy. Upper endoscopy revealed LA Class D esophagitis with ulceration in the distal esophagus, and biopsies showed inflamed glandular mucosa with at least high-grade dysplasia. These findings were consistent with a diagnosis of Barrett's esophagus secondary to GERD.
Three weeks after his upper endoscopy, he presented to the emergency department with right jaw pain and swelling after hitting his jaw on a work bench. A CT revealed right mandibular angle fracture and coronoid fracture (). The facial trauma team was consulted and, secondary to his oromandibular dystonia, he was discharged on a liquid diet with Augmentin, Peridex, and close follow-up. He was seen in the clinic a week later and denied trismus, malocclusion, or difficulty with his liquid diet. On examination, he was found to have an exophytic mass of the right retromolar trigone, which he noted his teeth had been hitting. This mass was present before his fracture and had gotten larger over time. This mass was biopsied in the clinic and came back as likely metastatic adenocarcinoma ().
The patient underwent a second upper endoscopy. Biopsy taken during this second endoscopy was consistent with a moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma of the distal esophagus. A PET/CT revealed a large, hypermetabolic distal esophageal mass consistent with the given diagnosis of esophageal adenocarcinoma. Hypermetabolic lesions involving the regional lymph nodes, lungs, spine, and right mandible, as shown in , were found on PET/CT. These findings were consistent with a Stage IV, TX, NX, M