A 46-year old female patient, who had been suffering from autoimmune thyroid disease for eight years, presented at our clinic with an acute exacerbation of GO. Clinical examination revealed a convergent strabismus fixus with severe hypotropia of both eyes (Fig. ). The patient complained of increasing loss of eyesight and heavy retrobulbar pain. Visual acuity had deteriorated significantly from 0.6/0.5 to 0.1/0.1 within 3 months. A contrast enhanced orbital MRI scan showed distinct swelling of all extraocular muscles with bilateral compression of the optic nerve (Fig. ). There was no history of comorbidities except nicotine abuse. Laboratory tests showed a euthyroid biochemical status with TSH within the normal range, but elevated levels of Anti-Thyroid Peroxidase Antibody, Anti-Thyroglobulin Antibody and Thyroid Receptor Antibody. The patient’s daily medication comprised of 200 μg L-Thyroxin and 200 μg Selenium. Over many years, the patient had shown only mild to moderate symptoms of GO, but following a thyroidectomy, the symptoms had recently worsened dramatically. Since the disease could not be controlled by high-dose systemic glucocorticoid therapy, bilateral three wall orbital decompression had been performed twice previously. In the first step, the medial orbital wall had been resected via an endonasal approach. Due to ongoing findings as before, two months later partial resection of the orbital floor and fenestration of the lateral orbital wall via a combined transconjunctival/transcaruncular approach with piezosurgery had been performed. In addition, high-dose systemic glucocorticoid therapy was conducted prior to surgery and for the first two months after surgery. Glucocorticoid medication had to be gradually reduced until zero because the patient suffered from an upcoming depression and Cushing syndrome. Orbital radiotherapy for the treatment of thyroid eye disease had been considered as a therapeutic option, but the rapid progress of the disease with the growing risk of dysthyroid optic neuropathy forced us to act more quickly than orbital radiotherapy could perform [