A 76-year-old man with previous history of smoking, type 2 diabetes mellitus, dyslipidemia, high blood pressure and alkaptonuria with ochronotic arthropathy, was referred to our hospital by edema in lower extremities and renal dysfunction. Image studies showed a papillary proliferation in the distal portion of the right ureter. The biopsy of this lesion revealed a high grade urothelial carcinoma (Fig. ), and the patient was treated with a right nephroureterectomy. One year later, the tumor relapsed and the patient underwent a transurethral resection (TUR) of a lesion located in the right wall of the bladder. This sample was diagnosed as a high grade urothelial carcinoma with extensive glandular differentiation. During the subsequent year, a positron emission tomography (18F-FDG PET/CT) showed areas of intense uptake in the urinary bladder, in multiple pelvic lymph nodes and in a mass located in the right thoracic wall, where a surgical trocar was placed during the previous nephroureterectomy. The patient was submitted to radical cystectomy, pelvic lymphadenectomy and excision of the thoracic mass.
The specimen of cystectomy showed a polypoid tumor of 10 cm diameter filling the lumen of the bladder. The tumor was implanted on the right wall, involved the right ureteral meatus and grossly extended into the paravesical adipose tissue. Macroscopically, the lesion was heterogeneous, with extensive necrotic and hemorrhagic areas. Solid areas with white-tan color were also identified (Fig. a). Microscopically, the tumor exhibited several components and patterns. First, an epithelial component, organized in papillary and glandular structures with tall columnar cells. These cells had clear cytoplasm and showed infra and supranuclear vacuoles, resembling endometrium or primitive intestinal epithelium. Second, an epithelial component organized in trabecular and solid patterns composed of polygonal cells with wide eosinophilic cytoplasm, central nuclei and nucleoli, similar to hepatocytes. Third, an undifferentiated stromal component with densely cellular areas composed of round, blue and small cells, intermingled with less cellular areas with myxoid