A 24-year-old male was suffering from schizophrenia with features of Capgras syndrome and tobacco dependence syndrome for the last eight years and was under psychiatry treatment at our institute for a year. He was treated as inpatient and at the time of admission his mental state examination showed restricted and inappropriate affect, delusion of misidentification and doubles, as well as delusion of persecution, impaired abstraction, and judgement. The symptoms severity was rated on Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale (PANSS) that revealed a score of 87 []. In view of failed trials of olanzapine, haloperidol, and risperidone as well as nine sessions of modified bilateral electroconvulsive therapy, he was diagnosed with TRS and was started on clozapine (Sizopin, Sun Pharmaceuticals Industries Ltd., India). In the first three weeks of inpatient treatment, the dose of clozapine was built up to 250 mg per day. As per the treatment guidelines, monitoring for agranulocytosis and repeat electrocardiograms was done []. The dose of clozapine was increased slowly in view of excessive sedation. However, due to poor response, the dose of clozapine was further increased to up to 500 mg per day over the weeksfour to six of inpatient treatment. The PANSS was only reduced to 65 with this treatment, and therefore, trifluoperazine was added and increased up to 20 mg per day in the next two weeks. Dietary modifications and osmotic laxatives were advised for constipation, but patient would be nonadherent to this advice. In view of residual Capgras syndrome and negative symptoms, cognitive behavior therapy (CBT) was initiated. The patient was discharged after eight weeks of inpatient treatment and CBT was continued on outpatient basis. He followed up regularly with us for the next four weeks. But in the sixth week postdischarge, he presented to the surgical emergency with complaints of colicky pain in abdomen associated with recurrent bilious vomiting since a day. He also had abdominal distension with obstipation