An 80-year-old male patient was referred to the abdominal surgery department due to incarcerated ventral hernia and ileus. In the past he was operated due to perforated gastric ulcer. He also had arterial hypertension, chronic pulmonary obstructive disease and pulmonary hypertension, a history of smoking, he suffered an ishemic stroke in the past. He was urgently operated on the same day. Segmental resection of small bowel with end-to-end anastomosis was performed and the hernia defect was closed with direct sutures, without prosthetic mesh because the bowel was resected. There were no surgical or other complications after surgery and he was discharged from hospital after 8 days. 5 days later he was admitted to the hospital again due to early recurrence of ventral hernia. The content in hernia sac could however be reduced back to his abdomen. Laboratory findings showed leucocytosis and elevated C-reactive protein (CRP - 148 mg/l). Intestinal winding with a thickened wall up to 5 mm was found at the location of the ventral hernia by ultrasound examination. The patient underwent a second surgery 22 days after the first surgery due to obstructive ileus, which was seen on the abdominal computed tomography (CT) a day earlier. Due to additional diseases and disorders (ischemic stroke and insertion of stent in his left internal carotid artery in 2011, arterial hypertension, asthma, pulmonary fibrosis and hypertension, which were not properly treated, because the patient did not follow the prescribed treatment) the anaesthesiologist decided for the spinal anaesthesia, because the general anaesthesia would be to risky. The surgery was performed by an abdominal surgeon with 5 years experiences as a specialist and he performed more than 30 Rives-Stoppa ventral hernia repairs. The skin incision was made along the previous skin incision. In the subcutaneous tissue the small intestine was tightly adhered on to the skin. We managed to release it but unfortunately, a segment of the small intestine was damaged during adhesyolisis. Segmental resection of the damaged small bowel with end-to-end anastomosis was