A 47-year-old white male presented with recurrent severe dizziness, chest tightness, shortness of breath, left upper back pain, night sweats, and chills of three weeks duration. His past medical history consisted of a 20 pack/year history of smoking and squamous cell carcinoma of the tongue, status-post excision with subsequent radiation and chemotherapy a year and a half prior to his presentation. He also had recurrent disease with biopsy-proven metastatic disease in the cervical lymph nodes nine months after the initial diagnosis and multiple lung nodules on CT and PET scans six months thereafter. He was continued on immunotherapy with nivolumab with subsequent cycles planned.
He was admitted for workup of the near syncope. A CT of the chest on admission revealed a filling defect in the left brachiocephalic vein extending into the right atrium and a filling defect in the right ventricle believed to be a thrombus. Heparin anticoagulation was initiated for possible thrombus in transit and a suspected pulmonary embolus (PE). Ten hours later, the patient developed severe diaphoresis, associated with inspiratory chest pain and shortness of breath. An electrocardiogram (ECG) revealed diffuse ST elevation, and a stat TTE revealed a large pericardial effusion with tamponade physiology. Emergent pericardiocentesis was performed and 1,600 cc bloody pericardial fluid was drained; the pericardial drain was left in for 24 hours with no significant additional drainage. Cytology of the pericardial fluid was negative. The patient’s shortness of breath persisted at rest and was associated with a low-grade fever (100.2° F). He experienced repeated episodes of hypotension and tachycardia, requiring intermittent fluid resuscitation and pressor support.
A follow-up TTE (Figure ) and TEE (Figure ) revealed a growing right-sided mobile mass in the right atrium, right ventricle, and pulmonary artery (PA), which was believed to be a large thrombus.
In view of cardiac tamponade with a rapidly accumulating pericardial effusion on anticoagulation and a presumed larger