Our patient is a 58-year-old African American woman who initially presented to an outside facility of difficulty swallowing, neck pain, fatigue, and shortness of breath for 3 months. She had bilateral neck swelling, greater on the left side, that started about a year prior to her presentation. This patient also had a 4-day history of productive cough and nasal drainage. She had a 30-pack year history and consumed approximately 12 beers daily for years.
She reported a history of CLL and having been treated with chemotherapy, but she was unsure of the regimen. Examination findings and computed tomography (CT) scan of neck at the outside facility were concerning for impending airway compromise, and she was transferred to our hospital to be evaluated by an otorhinolaryngology or oral and maxillofacial surgery service.
During her evaluation in our emergency department, she was noted to have a muffled voice with mild gurgling of secretions with speech. Large, fixed cervical and submandibular lymph node, and a large left neck mass were present. Enlarged axillary lymph nodes were palpated bilaterally. The uvula and posterior oropharynx were not visible due to her tongue and left neck mass. White blood cell (WBC) count was 83 600/mm3. She was started on dexamethasone to reduce the compression of the neck mass on the airway. The oral and maxillofacial surgery service team evaluated her and determined that a definitive airway was not indicated. She was admitted to the medical intensive care unit for close airway monitoring.
The oncology team became involved at this time. Her CLL was the suspected etiology of the neck mass and lymphadenopathy, and intravenous fluids and allopurinol were started to prevent tumor lysis syndrome. Further laboratory workup showed the predominantly lymphocytic, elevated WBC count as before and a normocytic anemia, hemoglobin 10.6 g/dL. Smudge cells were present on the peripheral blood smear. Iron studies, B12, and folate were normal. Flow cytometry was