A 37-year-old Japanese man was admitted to our hospital due to multiple brain metastases. He was aware of coughing 6 months previously and had a headache 3 weeks ago, so he visited our hospital. Brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) revealed multiple brain tumors in the bilateral cerebellum and cerebrum (Fig. ). Chest computed tomography (CT) showed a 15-mm nodular shadow in the middle lobe of his left lung, and he was referred to our Department of Respiratory Medicine (Fig. a). He was admitted for further examination because he was suspected of having lung cancer with brain metastases. There was no special mention in his medical history; there was no alcohol drinking or tobacco smoking history. On physical examination, his body temperature was 36.7 °C, his blood pressure was 122/78 mmHg, his pulse was 56 beats per minute, and his respiratory rate was 12 breaths per minute. His oxygen saturation was 98% in room air. Lung and bronchial sounds were normal. Head, eyes, and nose examinations were unremarkable. His neck had no lymphadenopathy. An examination of his heart, abdomen, and extremities showed no abnormalities. Blood test findings revealed elevation of tumor markers such as carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) and squamous cell carcinoma antigen (SCC). On day 4 after admission, bronchoscopy was performed. The histology at bronchoscopy for the middle lobe of his left lung is shown in Fig. . Adenocarcinoma cells exhibiting a papillary pattern were found, and he was diagnosed as having papillary adenocarcinoma of the left lung according to the World Health Organization (WHO) classification, 4th edition. His adenocarcinoma was positive for ALK according to immunohistochemistry and fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) method (Fig. ). Based on this observation, he was diagnosed as having ALK-positive lung cancer with cerebral metastases, and administration of alectinib 600 mg/day was started from day 23 after admission. Adverse events such as allergic reactions, interstitial pneumonia, and gastrointestinal symptoms were not observed.