An 81-year-old male patient was referred to our department with dysphonia. There was no history of smoking. A status past multiple myeloma was known in his medical history that was in complete remission at the time of presentation. The patient denied dyspnea, dysphagia, pharyngalgia, and fever. Laryngoscopy revealed a diminished mobility of the right vocal cord and a thickening of the right vestibular fold so that a microlaryngoscopy with tissue sampling was performed. The histological examination of specimens obtained from this region revealed fibrosis. Computed tomography (CT) scans of the neck and the thorax were without any pathologic findings. The patient was discharged to outpatient care.
Three months later, the patient was admitted with progressive dyspnea along with inspiratory stridor. The clinical examination revealed now a complete paralysis of the right vocal cord and a remaining glottic cleft of only 1 mm due to a supraglottic protrusion of the right vestibular fold. The CT scan () showed now a tumor of the right vocal cord extending to the right piriform sinus.
After tumor debulking in order to expand and secure the airway, the excised material that consisted of several red brown elastic tissue fragments measuring together 24 × 12 × 10 mm was sent for pathological examination. Histologically, one could see tight lymphoid infiltrates. The cells had large nuclei and were irregularly shaped, and the proliferation was strongly enhanced in the staining for Ki67 (50%). The immunohistochemical analyses showed a negative result for CD20 and CD3, and a positive staining for CD138. BCL2 and CD10 were coexpressed (). The clonal light chain restriction for lambda chains substantiated the diagnosis of a multiple myeloma. These results were consistent with laryngeal involvement from the patient's previously diagnosed multiple myeloma.
The patient was referred to the Department of Hematology and a systemic therapy with the proteasome inhibitor Bortezomib was discussed. Ultimately, instead of that, a local radiation therapy with 60 Gy was performed. In a control laryngoscopy with tissue sample taken