A 62-year-old woman was referred to our neurosurgical outpatient service with abnormal sensation in her trunk, arms and legs. The patient had a past medical history of a gastric ulcer, a right ankle plating after fracture 20 years ago and a headlice infection 6 months before first presentation. She was a smoker, social drinker of alcohol and was not taking any regular medication. She lived alone and had been struggling to manage independently.
Since her symptoms commenced 3 years previously, the patient had presented to emergency department (ED) on 11 occasions. Her primary complaint was of dysaesthetic sensory symptoms including a feeling of water retention and a gel infiltrating the skin of her face, trunk, arms and legs, feeling there was something stuck on her skin and feeling her hair was stuck down. In the weeks before the onset of her symptoms, the patient started using an olive oil moisturising cream, to which she attributed her symptoms.
While dermatological examination was conducted, comprehensive neurological examinations were not documented during the first presentations to the ED, which focused on the patient’s facial dysaesthesia.
The patient was frustrated that her symptoms were repeatedly dismissed as delusional by the ED staff. She refused assessment by liaison psychiatry and mental health review by her general practitioner. The patient was felt to have capacity throughout all consultations. The patient was not taking any psychiatric medications.
Over time her symptoms progressed. She started to complain of back pain, multiple falls and episodes of her right leg giving way which had progressed to severely compromised walking and coordination. The patient also complained of episodes of urinary and faecal incontinence. This led to a lumbar MRI which ruled out cauda equina syndrome. In her final presentation before referral, she also complained of stiff legs, difficulty walking, difficulty passing urine, reduced manual dexterity and neck pain. A neurology assessment was finally sought and an MRI for suspected myelopathy was organised.