A 63-year-old male with a history of hypertension, 20 pack-years of smoking, thyroid cancer in remission with partial thyroidectomy, and chronic obstructive lung disease (COPD) presented to the emergency department (ED) with acute abdominal pain. Abdominal ultrasound showed gallstones with no evidence of cholecystitis or biliary obstruction. The patient was diagnosed with biliary colic and discharged home with a plan to perform an elective cholecystectomy. Computed tomography (CT) scan of the abdomen was performed as an outpatient as part of the preoperative workup which showed evidence of gallstones, small bilateral pleural effusions, and moderate pericardial effusion with high density suggestive of hemorrhage (). Consequently, the patient was referred to the emergency department for further workup. Upon arrival, the patient was asymptomatic, his vital signs were normal, and his physical examination was unremarkable. An electrocardiogram (EKG) revealed a nonspecific interventricular conduction delay. Chest x-ray showed a mildly enlarged cardiomediastinal silhouette with prominent perihilar opacities suggestive of a prominent vasculature (). Complete blood count and basic metabolic profile were within normal limits. Further laboratory workup showed normal erythrocyte sedimentation rate, rheumatoid factor, complement level, and procalcitonin with negative serology for antinuclear antibodies and double-stranded DNA antibodies. A transthoracic echocardiogram (TTE) showed a large pericardial effusion without signs of tamponade, moderate aortic regurgitation, and normal left ventricular ejection fraction and size. Given the large volume of pericardial effusion, a pericardial window was attempted. A total of one liter of hemorrhagic fluid was drained. Pericardial tissue biopsy showed acute and chronic inflammatory cells with thickened pericardium, and no malignant cells were detected (). Tuberculosis quantiferon assay, acid-fast bacilli staining, and fungal and bacterial cultures of the pericardial tissue were negative. The source of pericardial effusion remained elusive. Given the hemorrhagic nature of the pericardial effusion in the absence of recent use of anticoagulation and the negative workup for infectious or autoimmune etiology, a CT scan of the chest with contrast was