A 46-year-old woman with morbid obesity, hypertension, hyperlipidemia, active smoking, and bipolar disorder was evaluated for paroxysmal atrial fibrillation as an outpatient. A transthoracic echocardiogram showed a right atrial mass close to the RA-IVC junction. A transesophageal echocardiogram confirmed the presence of a pedunculated right atrial mobile bilobular mass measuring 2.1 × 1.8 cm, not arising from the interatrial septum with extension into the inferior vena cava (Figures –). A secundum atrial septal defect was also identified. The patient was referred to cardiac surgery for resection of a presumed right atrial myxoma given the possibility of embolization. The intraoperative TEE suggested the presence of one bilobulated mass arising low in the right atrium.
Using aortic and bicaval cannulation, a right atriotomy was performed and a discrete 2 × 3 cm mass was removed from the IVC-RA junction near the Eustachian valve. The right atrium was closed and the patient weaned from bypass. The specimen did not appear to be a myxoma, so it was sent for frozen section and interpreted as being ectopic liver tissue. In the interim, a repeat TEE showed an additional discrete 2 × 2 cm mass in the IVC near the hepatic veins. Femoral venous cannulation was then performed to allow for visualization of the IVC below the pericardial reflection. Through the same right atriotomy and using additional suction directly in the IVC, the IVC mass was visualized and resected. Both specimens were interpreted as showing partially encapsulated liver parenchyma with mild steatosis, fibrosis, ductal proliferation, and periductal chronic inflammation, consistent with ectopic hepatic tissue ().
Despite a brief period of cardiopulmonary bypass, the patient had persistent hypoxemic respiratory failure ascribed to her morbid obesity and underlying lung disease. She also developed extensive left lower extremity deep venous thrombosis from a presumed heparin-induced thrombocytopenia for which she was treated with argatroban and placement of an IVC filter. Because of chronic respiratory failure, she underwent tracheostomy and feeding tube placement