A 24-year-old female patient presented to the Department of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery at Homerton University Hospital in East London, UK, with a 4-week history of suspicious upper lip swelling. This patient was referred by her general practitioner on the urgent head and neck cancer referral pathway.
The patient's primary concern was the sudden onset of a large upper lip swelling with associated pain. The patient was not forthcoming and defensive when questioned regarding precipitating factors or possible trauma to the region. She was medically fit and healthy with no risk factors for oral cancer, such as smoking and alcohol consumption [].
On extraoral examination, the patient appeared to be well with no clinical signs of systemic illness. In general, the upper lip was disproportionately enlarged with an incompetent lip seal (). On close examination, a 2 cm × 1 cm firm, erythematous, swelling was noted in the upper right lip. The lesion was not encroaching on the midline and there was no associated cranial nerve deficit or lymphadenopathy. At the vermillion border, there was a puncture wound on a background of traumatised tissue adjacent to the firm swelling (). The lesion was painful on palpation with no suppuration, induration, or ulceration noted. Intraoral examination revealed a concurrent firm swelling within the labial sulcus. Dental health was unremarkable, and there were no signs of systemic infection.
Upon revision of the patient's electronic health-care record, it was noted that the patient had attended the Accident and Emergency Department at the Homerton University Hospital four weeks prior. The clinical clerking from this visit showed the main complaint to be swelling of the upper lip following self-injection of a dermal filler, purchased over the internet. When questioned again directly by the OMFS team regarding the true mode of injury, the patient revealed that she had purchased the filler material over the internet. The patient was uncertain of the name of the website