Our patient is a 40-year-old Asian man with complaints of bleeding and discomfort in his anus of 2 months’ duration. He was an employee with average income who did not smoke tobacco or drink alcohol. He had no weight loss or urinary symptoms, and no substantial family history. He denied any significant medical or surgical history. His abdomen was soft, non-tender, and non-distended, with normoactive bowel sounds. In examination, a mass could be touched by finger tips. The mass was large and bleeding. In subsequent examinations, blood was detected in a stool sample. His vital signs were: blood pressure, 130.77 mm Hg; respiratory rate, 18 breaths/minute; heart rate, 83 beats/minute; and temperature within normal limits. Oxygen saturation was 98% on room air on admission. In colonoscopy, a large lobular tumor was diagnosed at 4 cm above the dentate line, which was suspicious for malignancy. Various samples were taken from the tumor. The rest of his large intestine did not show a clear pathologic lesion in the colonoscopy.
High-grade adenocarcinoma was reported in pathological examinations. In subsequent diagnostic procedures, his carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) level was normal. Computed tomography (CT) scans revealed that metastatic lesions were not detected in his liver, abdominal viscera, and chest. In CT scans with or without contrast, and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scanning, an ectopic kidney was detected incidentally on his right pelvis without any prior urinary symptoms. The left kidney was in its original location, and both kidneys were functional. Renal function tests provided normal results.
In subsequent investigations done by MRI scanning for staging the tumor, a pelvic rectum tumor was reported to be interfering with the T3 N1 mesorectal lymph nodes (Figs. , ). The case was discussed in a multidisciplinary cancer team; afterward, our patient was regarded as a candidate for neoadjuvant radiotherapy. He underwent 45 GY radiation in 25 fractions to the pelvis