Case
Our patient is a 19-year-old male who reports cigarette smoking ½ pack per day. Past medical history is significant for type I diabetes mellitus (DM). Our patient presented to the clinic with neurological deficits consisting of trouble walking and diffuse pain throughout his body when standing and considerable difficulty with balance. These symptoms began three months prior to his presentation in clinic when he fell asleep in an awkward position and, on awakening, found that he was unable to walk. There was severe lower back pain with initial paresthesia. He further indicated that he was having bowel dysfunction. On exam, it was noted that foot dorsiflexion and big toe extension was compromised. An intervertebral disc prolapse was suspected to have led to the development of cauda equina syndrome. Further, the patient was noted to have fatigue, change in appetite, muscle aches, muscle weakness, back pain, and swelling in his extremities. He indicates that he has restless legs due to the pain and migraines. It was decided that operative intervention would be beneficial, and radiological evaluation via MRI was undertaken with results presented in Figure .
Pre-operative findings
Congenitally shortened pedicles caused a congenital baseline spinal canal stenosis as seen in Figure . At the L3-L4 intervertebral disc level, there is a circumferential disc bulge with a superimposed right subarticular to right posterior midline epidural disc extrusion. On axial views, extruded disc material extends from the right subarticular location along the lateral epidural space, reaching the ligamentum and extending medially into the posterior epidural space. Disc material is seen on the sagittal view in the posterior epidural space with disc material contributing to severe spinal canal stenosis in both anterior and posterior epidural locations. There is mass effect on the traversing nerve roots of the cauda equina, displacing the nerve roots to the left of midline.
Operative procedure
Decompression seemed the best surgical intervention. In the