A 23-year-old Caucasian female patient was admitted to the Department of Neurology at the end of September due to hands tremor and paresthesia extending to forearms, without the complaint of upper limb weakness. Another major symptom was severe pain in the mid-cervical region. Moreover, the patient suffered from episodes of nausea, vertigo in the period from May to September. During that period the patient also experienced transient episodes of diplopia on distance fixation. Most of the listed symptoms disappeared or decreased their intensity in September except for the limb tremor, episodes of pain in the cervical region, and diplopia.
The medical interview revealed a 2-day episode of fever in May. At that time, the patient could have been exposed to a tick bite in the forest endemic region. However, the tick bite was not remembered. The patient family history was negative for neurological or other chronic familial diseases. She was not taking any medications permanently and did not smoke cigarettes nor consume alcohol or drugs. There was no history of trauma, infections, intoxication and the patient was otherwise in good health. Apart from that, the review of the patient’s systems was negative.
On neurological examination, the muscle strength in the upper right limb was slightly reduced (grade 4 in Lovett scale) in comparison to the left limb. The muscle tone of the lower and upper extremities was at a normal range. Symmetrical intention tremor was observed in her hands, extending periodically to forearms and arms. Normal deep tendon reflexes occurred symmetrically in both upper and lower limbs. The patient’s movements were coherent. The sensory examination did not reveal skin hyperaesthesia in the upper nor lower extremities or spinal tenderness. The sensation was normal in the upper and lower extremities. There were no signs of cranial nerve impairment. The patient was conscious without signs of any psychological or mood disorders.
The patient underwent a comprehensive ophthalmological examination during hospitalization. Her best-corrected visual acuity was measured at 20/