A 38-year-old African American male with a history of hypertension and alcohol, cocaine, and tobacco use presented with recurrent abdominal pain. Three days prior, he was admitted with abdominal pain and hypertensive urgency. Cocaine and cannabinoids were found in his urine. A computed tomography (CT) scan of the abdomen with IV contrast demonstrated atherosclerosis of the aortoiliac system. With conservative management, the patient was diagnosed with cocaine-induced vasospasm and was discharged after two days.
The following day, he returned with recurrence of his abdominal pain and reported continued cocaine use. He described his symptoms as crampy in nature localizing to the upper right and left quadrants. He denied any associated nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, melena, or hematochezia. On arrival, his blood pressure was 190/120 mmHg. His abdomen was soft and flat with diffuse abdominal tenderness to soft and deep palpation with no guarding, organomegaly, rebound tenderness, or peritoneal signs.
Results of laboratory tests revealed a serum lactic acid of 2.7 mmol/L. A CT angiogram (CTA) of the abdomen and pelvis revealed a SISMAD within the proximal-to-mid SMA with a 3 cm thrombosis of the proximal false lumen and distal false lumen patency; 70% stenosis of the proximal SMA was noted secondary to this process (). There was no evidence of abdominal ischemia. He was admitted to a medical/surgical floor with telemetry and was treated with conservative management. In addition to pain control and bowel rest, his home amlodipine 5 mg daily and hydrochlorothiazide 12.5 mg daily were restarted with the addition of as-needed hydralazine for a strict systolic blood pressure target of <140. In conjunction with the vascular surgery team, he was started on antiplatelet monotherapy with aspirin 325 mg daily. Two days after presentation, a repeat CT angiogram showed stabilization of the SMA dissection and the patient was safely discharged. The patient did not have any further abdominal imaging after