A 67-year-old man was known to be a heavy smoker; he had also been uncontrolled hypertensive and hyperlipidemic for years. He presented to our emergency department with attacks of rhythmic arm shaking. He reported acutely feeling dizzy and then his left arm started to shake at a rate of about 3-4 Hz. This attack recurred four times lasting for about two minutes each, yet aborted spontaneously without medications. Consciousness was never impaired and there were no other symptoms, except that both frequency and duration increased upon position changing. Moreover, he reported previous similar attacks two months ago, and at that time they lasted only for few seconds. His vitals upon presentation were within normal: heart rate was 78 beats per minute, blood glucose level was 127 mg/dL, oxygen saturation was 96% in breathing room air, and body temperature was 37.5°C. His blood pressure was 130/80 mmHg. Urgent CT of the brain done and was normal. His initial laboratory investigations were within normal ranges, so focal motor seizures were thought to be the most likely diagnosis. He was given a loading of 1,000 mg intravenous phenytoin, but this did not reduce the frequency of the attacks. He was admitted to hospital for extensive work-up including full laboratory investigations, echocardiography, and pelviabdominal ultrasonography, which did not reveal any abnormalities. MRI with gadolinium enhancement administration showed only periventricular ischemic changes and atrophic changes related to age, without any gadolinium-enhanced lesions. Moreover, his epilepsy panel and tumor markers were negative, and prolonged electroencephalogram (EEG) video monitoring failed to capture any epileptic activity, and only continuous slowing over right frontoparietal lobes could be detected. We started him on carbamazepine with a target dose of 400 mg twice daily, along with modification of his antihypertensive medications. Mild improvement of attack frequency and duration was achieved. Meanwhile, the patient was discharged with a plan to follow-up in neurology clinic with recommendation for prolonged cardiac Holter monitoring.
The patient continued