This is a 42-year-old African American female who had an incidental finding of a new 17-mm pancreatic tail cystic lesion found on a CT scan during workup for abdominal pain. Patient was lost to follow-up, until a repeat CT scan 1 year later demonstrated a stable low attenuation, 15 mm × 11 mm pancreatic tail cyst (
). She complained of decreased appetite and intermittent epigastric pain over the last year. She was referred for EUS with FNA for further evaluation of the cyst. Her history is significant for diabetes mellitus, human immunodeficiency (well-controlled), alcohol and intermittent substance usage (marijuana and cocaine), recent ventral hernia repair, and family history significant only for breast and lung cancer. She has no significant tobacco usage history. No prior episodes of pancreatitis, known pancreatic disorder, or prior intervention. Exam is otherwise unremarkable, without palpable mass, jaundice, or tenderness to palpation. The patient underwent an EUS which found a complex cystic lesion in the pancreatic tail and an abnormal lymph node in the peripancreatic region (
). The pancreatic lesion had high-risk features, demonstrating both cystic and atypical solid components, measuring 27 mm × 9 mm, and abutting the splenic vessels near the hilum without invasion and a 27 mm × 11 mm enlarged peripancreatic lymph node. Both were sampled by FNA. Approximately 5 mL of pancreatic cystic fluid was obtained which appeared cloudy, blood tinged, and viscous. Fluid analysis demonstrated CEA level of 5,327.7 ng/mL, amylase of 335 U/L, and glucose of 69 mg/dL. Cytology demonstrated benign appearing squamous cells and a few atypical, degenerated cells. Lymph node findings were benign. Serum CA 19–9 was low at <3 U/L.
Given these high-risk findings the patient underwent distal pancreatectomy and splenectomy. Intraoperative findings included no evidence of distant metastatic disease, no worrisome lymphadenopathy, and a lesion in the pancreatic tail without invasions into surrounding