A 53-year-old male was brought to our Emergency Department with 1 month of confusion. He was completely normal 1 month prior, running a successful small business. The patient's wife initially observed confusion which worsened with impaired functioning, impairing his ability to work and care for his children. The patient was initially brought to an outside facility around 2 weeks into this illness. At that time, his symptoms had progressed to difficulty recognizing family, mutism, and hypersomnia. He then developed myoclonus with agitation and combativeness. MRI and CSF analysis from the outside facility were unremarkable (including an initially unavailable report of “unlikely prion disease” with no 14-3-3 protein detected). The patient was released with eventual admission to our hospital. By week 4 of his disease, he became bedridden, disoriented, and unable to recognize family. He developed myoclonic jerks and did not follow commands. Moreover, he had moderately increased muscle tone and incontinence. He never developed psychiatric manifestations. His clinical course continued to decline with subsequent intubation for airway protection by week 5 with deterioration by week 6 to GCS of 1/1/1. He has remained in this state ever since.
Past medical history was significant for remote history of nasal carcinoma. The patient took no home medications. His surgical history was significant for nasal carcinoma resection. Family history consisted of a father with hypertension. The patient denied using tobacco or drugs and used alcohol socially only. He ran a busy automobile mechanic business. He traveled to El Salvador 1 year prior to presentation. There are no recent sick or animal contacts.
At our hospital, he was never febrile with stable vital signs. After his initial negative MRI at the outside facility, MRI head began to show bilateral caudate and basal ganglia abnormality on T2 as well as DWI. Additionally, there is a cortical ribbon involvement in the posterior portion of both hemispheres (Figure