A 30-year-old female with a medical history of hypertension and smoking sustained a left mandibular angle fracture after a fall from a ladder. The patient underwent open reduction and internal fixation of her left mandibular angle through an intraoral approach without complications. The patient developed an infection at the site of the hardware and nonunion of the fracture site as a result of noncompliance—lack of smoking cessation and poor oral hygiene—with postoperative instructions. For treatment of the nonunion and infection, the patient returned to the operating room (OR) approximately 1 month after the initial surgery for debridement and removal and replacement of the hardware. Two months from the time of injury, the patient sustained a fist-to-face assault and developed an abscess at the site of the hardware. Incision and drainage of the abscess were performed at an outside hospital. However, the patient developed an extraoral fistula at the site of the infected hardware. She was scheduled for an elective fistulectomy, debridement of the previous fracture site, and removal and replacement of hardware 4 months from the time of her initial injury.
In the OR, all standard American Society of Anesthesiologists monitors were placed. The patient underwent preoxygenation for 8 minutes prior to intubation, and induction of general anesthesia was facilitated with 80 mg lidocaine, 160 mg propofol, 150 mcg fentanyl, 120 mg succinylcholine, and 10 mg rocuronium. Nasoendotracheal intubation was performed with a 7.5 mm nasal right angle endotracheal (RAE) tube, and a MacIntosh 3.5 laryngoscope was placed with direct laryngoscopy; however, 2 minutes after intubation during confirmation of tube placement, the patient was found to have a leak related to cuff rupture. An Eschmann-guided exchange was performed with a 7.0 mm nasal RAE tube and a McGrath video laryngoscope because a Cook airway exchange catheter was not available. Placement was confirmed with bilateral breath sounds, symmetric chest rise, and capn