Mr. XY is a 33-year-old man who was referred to the psychiatric service by his rheumatologist for a severe weight loss associated with complete food refusal. He was admitted to the psychiatric inpatient unit, and detailed information about the case history was collected.
Mr. XY was first diagnosed with a BS in 2003, over twelve years before the first psychiatric admission. BS is a disease featuring a chronic vasculitis with a multisystemic involvement of both arteries and veins []. Orogenital and ocular lesions are common in BS, but it may show a wide range of clinical manifestations, including involvement of the central nervous system (CNS) [, ].
BS is supposed to have a strong genetic vulnerability and, although its pathogenesis is still not clear, it was associated with an alteration of the immune and inflammatory response [, ]. Soon after, Mr. XY underwent a genetic examination, showing a HLA-B51 carrier status (an allele associated with the presence of BS) []; moreover, a brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) highlighted a diffuse signal intensity alteration of the right cerebellar hemisphere. He was first prescribed glucocorticoids (often employed in the treatment of the acute involvement of the CNS in BS) and colchicine, an alkaloid with anti-inflammatory and immune-modulatory properties used with beneficial effects in different kinds of diseases, from BS from gout [, ]. It was also prescribed cyclosporine, an immunosuppressive agent that interferes with the transcription of several cytokines []; however, cyclosporine intake was discontinued by Mr. XY in a few months because of gastrointestinal side effects. Since two years from the first diagnosis, he had started to show signs of neuromuscular damage (including tremors, muscle weakness with recurrent falls, dyspnea with reduced exercise tolerance, and evidence of restrictive ventilatory defect with no diffusion impairment). During 2009, he reported recurrent headaches, and as a consequence, a new brain MRI was performed, showing a cavernous angioma located in the right cerebellar hemisphere. Two years