A 42-year-old woman presented with a 2-year history of typical angina following the onset of premature menopause. At the time of presentation, she described angina consistent with Canadian Cardiovascular Society (CCS) Class II severity, with predictable chest tightness when walking up hills. She reported no symptoms at rest. The patient had been prescribed propranolol 10 mg three times daily for anxiety and an oestrogen patch for hormone replacement therapy. She was an ex-smoker and her past medical history included obesity, migraine, and depression. She underwent an ETT, exercising for 6 min and 23 s with reproduction of chest pain at 4 min but no ECG changes. The test was stopped due to dyspnoea and fatigue. Her attending cardiologist felt that CAD could not be excluded and referred her for a CTCA, which showed normal coronary arteries.
Invasive CAG revealed myocardial bridging in the mid-LAD. Coronary flow reserve on coronary function testing was low at 1.7, with a borderline IMR of 24. On acetylcholine provocation testing, there was a transient reduction in antegrade flow in the LAD without evidence of epicardial vasospasm (). The patient experienced transient chest pain and the ECG disclosed ST elevation in leads I and aVL with reciprocal ST depression in leads II, III, and aVF. The angiographic appearance following acetylcholine, accompanied by the reproduction of her usual symptoms and ECG changes, was consistent with microvascular spasm, an endotype of microvascular angina.
The patient had been randomized to the standard, angiography-guided arm of the trial. She was diagnosed with probable non-cardiac chest pain. No changes to her medication were made.
At 12 months, the patient was unblinded. Her angina status remained consistent with CCS Class II severity and she was prescribed verapamil 240 mg daily and statin therapy. Her primary care physician had referred her to the cardiac rehabilitation service for supervised exercise. Four months later, she reported an improvement in her angina. Her exercise tolerance had improved and she only had symptoms when