The patient was a 37-year-old Caucasian female suffering from depression, chronic low back pain, and OUD in sustained remission, who was admitted to the inpatient psychiatric unit for suicidal ideations. She endorsed four months of despondency surrounding the anniversary of her infant’s death. This triggered recreational illicit use, with admission urine toxicology revealing methamphetamines, benzodiazepines, and methadone. The outpatient regimen consisted of methadone 40 mg twice daily and gabapentin 600 mg four times daily.
Our addiction service was consulted for advice on how to proceed. Her substance use history was discussed, and it emerged that she had been introduced to smoking cocaine at an early age by her mother who had suffered from addiction herself. Although she had not found it enjoyable at the time, she had developed an affinity to use in social gatherings in her late teens. A back injury following a car accident at age 20 had led her to take prescribed short-acting opioids, which she had quickly begun to misuse. She had been discharged from the clinic and started obtaining these drugs illicitly with a quick transition to intravenous heroin use. Following several overdoses and legal repercussions, her father had prompted her to seek treatment at a methadone clinic, and she had been able to maintain remission for 10 years. She had found great analgesic relief with a 160-mg daily dose, allowing her to be functional. Due to a relocation and subsequent lack of access to a methadone clinic, she had transitioned to a local pain management clinic for methadone three years prior to the current admission.
Her recent relapse involved methamphetamines and benzodiazepines; however, she disclosed having misused methadone for euphoria, sometimes taking more than her daily prescribed dose. The pain clinic had developed concerns over her hepatitis C (diagnosed several years ago) and potential addition to cardiotoxic psychotropics for mood and had, prior to this admission, begun to reduce her daily dose while considering