Filipino male, 38 years old, non-smoker, presented to the general surgery clinic at our institution with intermittent right upper quadrant pain since two months radiating to the right shoulder and associated with vomiting. He had history of gallstones and a previous episode of acute cholecystitis 6 months prior that was treated conservatively. No past medical or surgical history, and no history of hemolytic disease. On examination, he had normal vital signs, and no abdominal tenderness. Ultrasound of the abdomen showed a distended gallbladder with thick wall and large calculus (about 5 cm), with few sludge balls. No evidence of pericholecystic fluid or cholecystitis. Patient was diagnosed as chronic cholecystitis and admitted for elective LC under general anesthesia. At surgery, he was placed in supine position, and a supra umbilical camera port was inserted in addition to another 3 working ports. After entrance to the peritoneal cavity, there were adhesions between the greater omentum and gallbladder. Gallbladder was distended with thick wall. As there was a dilated cystic duct that raised suspicion of common bile duct stone, an intraoperative cholangiogram was undertaken, which showed a filling defect in the distal part of the common bile duct without obstruction, and there was passage of contrast into the duodenum. Using a Dormia basket, the sludge and tiny stones were extracted from the common bile duct. A second (check) cholangiogram was then done that confirmed the smooth passage of contrast to the duodenum without any filling defect. After dissection of the gallbladder, it was put in an endobag and removed out after minimal lateral extension of the supra umbilical incision. The procedure was undertaken by an experienced laparoscopic general surgeon. The gallstone measured 4.1 × 4 × 3.6 cm. Post-operative course was smooth without any complications. Patient was discharged one day after surgery. Histopathology showed xanthomatous chronic cholecystitis. At follow up two weeks later, he had no active complaints.