A. D. a 78 year-old right handed Caucasian male, a retired physician, had experienced, for the 3 years prior to his hospital admission, recurrent episodes of transient visual symptoms. These consisted exclusively in the occurrence of colorless mesh-like flickering lights in his right homonymous visual fields. These photopias were not induced by any particular stimulus, showed no movement, but their light intensity pulsated in a rhythmic pattern. These were not associated with auditory phenomena, nor were they preceded, associated with or followed by headache. These episodes lasted for 1–2 min and cleared spontaneously only to recur after variable periods of time. Because these episodes were not associated with any change in his visual acuity nor with the perception of a visual field defect A. D. did not seek, during that period of time, an ophthalmological evaluation. Only when the patient's wife reported some personality changes consisting in sleepiness and unusual sudden mood changes together with a mild gait imbalance, a cerebral MRI with Gadolinium was done and demonstrated an intraventricular meningioma in the right lateral ventricle, associated with edema in the right parietal lobe ().
The patient was admitted to a neurosurgical referral center. There his general physical and neurological examinations, including visual field testing by confrontation, detected no abnormalities. A chest x-ray, EKG, complete blood count, electrolytes, BUN, creatinine, liver function tests, and coagulation profile were all within normal limits. He was then brought to the operating room where a right posterior parietal craniotomy was performed in the prone position. A transcortical approach to the right lateral ventricle with image guidance assistance was carried out and a Vycor tubular retractor was positioned into that tract. Under the operating microscope the tumor was visualized and a biopsy was taken that revealed a meningioma grade 2. The tumor was debulked with the aid of an ultrasonic aspirator and it was eventually completely removed. A few veins attached to the tumor capsule were coagulated but no