A 65-year-old man with severe chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) was admitted with a four-day history of chest pain and worsening shortness of breath. He explained the chest pain started suddenly when he tried to reach out for something on his computer table. It was located on the right anterior chest, sharp in nature, 7/10 in intensity, pleuritic, and worse with coughing and deep breathing. He had a past medical history of severe COPD with frequent exacerbations recently necessitating multiple antibiotics and steroid courses, coronary artery disease, gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD), and hypertension. He had a 30-pack per year smoking history and quit about 10 years ago. He was a retired fireman living with his family.
Vitals signs in the emergency department (ED) were stable; he was breathing on ambient air. The physical examination demonstrated decreased breath sounds bilaterally without any wheezing or Ronchi. Moderate tenderness was present in the mid-axillary line in the fifth intercostal space, but no other abnormalities were noticed. Laboratory investigations were negative for any leukocytosis, troponin, or any other abnormalities. The electrocardiogram (EKG) showed a normal sinus rhythm. Computed tomography (CT) angiography was done to rule out pulmonary embolism (PE). The CT was negative for PE but showed mild peribronchial infiltrate in the right middle lobe and posterolateral lung herniation between the seventh and eighth ribs, with minimal subcutaneous emphysema along the right chest wall (Figure ).
The patient was admitted to the hospital and managed conservatively on broad-spectrum antibiotics, including vancomycin, levofloxacin, and 40 mg per day of prednisone. Two days later, his face swelled up suddenly with a change in the quality of his voice while he was eating dinner. An examination showed a swelling in the neck, diffuse crepitations on his body involving the face, all the way down to the buttocks. Repeat CT chest and neck showed extensive subcutaneous emphysema in