Our patient was a 31-year-old man who presented to a regional hospital with the chief complaint of substernal chest pain. His past medical history was significant for Crohn’s disease treated with infliximab every six weeks. He was in his normal state of health until he suddenly developed substernal chest pain associated with nausea and vomiting after he finished his routine workout in the morning. He reported similar episodes of chest pain along with shortness of breath on exertion over the past two years. He was referred to a cardiologist who opted to perform an exercise treadmill stress test with unremarkable results. He denied any family history of cardiovascular diseases. He regularly followed a gastroenterologist for his Crohn’s disease that was complicated by anal fistula. Unfortunately, he had been experiencing daily chronic diarrhea due to Crohn’s disease. He was also scheduled for an abdominal ultrasound for his chronically elevated liver enzymes in the upcoming months. Otherwise, he denied alcohol abuse, smoking history, or illicit medication use. He worked as a security guard and was also a heavy weight lifter. He used chronic anabolic steroids in three-to-four months cycles for approximately the past ten years.
Electrocardiogram (EKG) revealed anterior wall ST-segment elevations along with an elevated cardiac troponin level (Figure ). The patient was transferred to our hospital status post administering of aspirin 324 milligrams (mg) via helicopter transportation service in order to undergo emergent coronary angiography that revealed a normal left main coronary artery, but a thrombotic occlusion was found in the left anterior descending artery (LAD) (Figure ). There was thrombolysis in myocardial infarction (TIMI) grade flow of 1-2 from collateral arteries of the distal right coronary artery to the septal cascade. The patient underwent balloon angioplasty associated with intracoronary thrombolysis of tissue plasminogen activator (tPA) 10 mg over 10 minutes. Insertion of a 4.5 x 3.8 millimeters of the bare