A 65-year-old female with a history significant for tobacco use, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), tobacco abuse, sarcoidosis, hypertension, hyperlipidemia and non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus presented for the first time to outpatient cardiology clinic for evaluation of her chest pain. She had initially seen her primary care physician in the outpatient setting and was ruled out to have pulmonary, musculoskeletal and gastrointestinal etiology, and was subsequently referred to cardiology clinic for evaluation of cardiac etiology for her consistent chest pain symptoms despite being on medical therapy.
The patient reported progressive worsening of chest pain for a few months. She described radiation of the chest pain to jaw and left upper chest along with left upper extremity and shoulder area. She denied any specific association of pain with scale of activity and pain occasionally happened at rest as well. She was recently given nitroglycerin sublingual tablets for relief of her chest pain syndrome. Physical exam revealed normal cardiac findings with regular rate and rhythm. She had no murmurs and jugular venous pressure was not elevated. Electrocardiogram (EKG) showed normal sinus rhythm and left axis deviation (Figure ).
A chest X-ray was unremarkable for any acute cardiopulmonary process (Figure ).
An echocardiogram was ordered, which showed normal left ventricular size with an estimated ejection fraction of 55%. She had concentric remodeling of the left ventricle. Echocardiogram was positive for akinesis of myocardial segments (Figure ).
Given her abnormal echocardiogram and high pre-test probability of ASCVD and symptoms concerning for unstable angina, she was offered a left heart catheterization and coronary angiography to further delineate her coronary anatomy.
She was brought to the catheterization laboratory in the fasting state. Coronary artery angiography and left heart catheterization were performed via right radial artery access without complications. It revealed an anomalous left main coronary artery from single right coronary ostium (Figure ).
It further revealed significant obstructive multi-vessel coronary artery disease involving distal left main artery, proximal left anterior