A 35-year-old Japanese woman was referred to our hospital for evaluation of a mass in the left lower lung field (Fig ) with a complaint of dry cough for six months. She had a smoking history of 15 pack-years but no notable past medical history or drug allergy. Chest computed tomography demonstrated a large mass in the left lower lobe of her lung, and enlarged lymph nodes in the left hilum and right mediastinum. Solid adenocarcinoma was detected by bronchial biopsy from the mass in the left lower lobe (Fig ). The cancer stage was determined to be cT4N3M1c, stage IVB, isolated right cervical lymph node metastasis. Molecular testing of the biopsied specimen revealed ROS1 rearrangement.
Crizotinib was introduced as the first-line therapy (250 mg twice daily). The primary lesion and mediastinal hilar lymph node metastases both shrank rapidly. However, right pleural effusion was observed on chest X-ray on the fourth day of treatment (Fig ). The right pleural effusion was exudative and predominantly composed of lymphocytes, but cytology and culture were both negative (Table ). For autoimmune markers, only antinuclear antibody and anti-ds-DNA IgG were measured, both of which were negative. Cardiac ultrasonography demonstrated normal cardiac function and no evidence of heart failure. During crizotinib administration, right pleural effusion continued to increase, but after 41 days of treatment, crizotinib was discontinued due to grade 3 neutropenia, followed by a gradual decrease in pleural effusion. Surgical thoracoscopy was performed one month after the cessation of crizotinib. There were no causative findings of pleural effusion in the right pleura within the visible range. Biopsy of the parietal pleura and partial resection of the collapsed right middle lobe were performed. On pathology, there were no malignant findings. Lymphocytes, plasma cells, and reactive mesothelial cells were observed (Fig. ). As right pleural effusion disappeared and did not recur during continued drug withdrawal, it was considered to be an adverse