Our patient is a 42-year-old male who initially presented to an outside hospital six years ago with hematemesis and subsequently diagnosed with upper gastrointestinal bleeding from esophageal varices and treated with endoscopic banding. At that time, he was diagnosed with portal hypertension secondary to acute portal vein thrombosis and received treatment with warfarin for six months and then took aspirin for an unknown period of time. Eventually, he stopped taking any medications and unfortunately lost follow-up due to lack of medical insurance. At the presentation to our hospital, he was not sure about his diagnosis and the reason why he had portal vein thrombosis. The patient denied any previous history of smoking tobacco products or using recreational drugs but reported drinking alcohol occasionally, not more than one or two drinks at a time. On the initial physical exam, his vital signs were within normal limits. The patient had a palpable spleen 2 cm below the left costal margin and reducible umbilical hernia. The rest of the physical exam was within normal limits. Initial laboratory investigations revealed white blood count of 7.4 x 109/L with a left shift (93.2% neutrophils), hemoglobin level of 14.1 g/dL, platelet count of 138 x 109/L, and normal kidney and liver function tests. His INR (international normalized ratio) was 1.45 without using any anticoagulation therapy. The patient also had mild anion gap acidosis (bicarbonate level of 20 mEq/L and anion gap of 14 mEq/L) with normal lactate level most likely secondary to acute gastroenteritis. His initial laboratory findings are summarized in Table .
CT of the abdomen and pelvis with intravenous contrast showed mild intrahepatic biliary duct distention, chronic portal venous thrombosis, and cavernous transformation of the portal vein (Figure ), extensive collateral vessels in the mesentery, mild ascites, splenomegaly (spleen size was 18.6 x 7.4 x 14.5 cm), and signs of acute enteritis and colitis. He was treated symptomatically for