A 24-year-old African American female presented to the inpatient psychiatric unit with self-inflicted lacerations on her left forearm. The patient reported experiencing a lack of energy, difficulty falling asleep, and feeling overwhelmed following the birth of her third child one month earlier. She reported her depressive symptoms initially began with the birth of her second child four years ago but had dramatically worsened with the birth of her third child. The patient reported a sense of losing control of her life and feeling “mad about everything” in her life. Despite exhibiting symptomatology consistent with MDD with peripartum onset after the birth of her second child, the patient reported having never being diagnosed with it or receiving any treatment for her symptoms until the birth of her third child. When the patient’s symptoms worsened with the birth of her third child, she was started on bupropion XL 150 mg daily by her obstetrician but did not experience any improvement in her symptoms. No other interventions for the patient's symptoms were attempted. At the time of admission, the patient was positive for six of the DSM-5 criteria for MDD with peripartum onset, including depressed mood, insomnia, fatigue, agitation, reduced appetite, and suicidal ideation.
The patient’s social history appeared marginally contributory to her condition. She reported she was single and lived with a roommate and her three children. The patient’s support system consisted of her sister, mother, and newborn baby’s father, all of whom occasionally helped to take care of her newborn. The patient reported that her sister also had a history of MDD with peripartum onset but denied any other psychiatric family history. The patient had graduated from high school and was unemployed. The patient reported drinking socially and smoking four to five cigarettes per day. The patient also reported occasional cannabis use but denied the use of other recreational drugs. Prior to her admission, the patient had breastfed intermittently