34 year old female patient referred to Ondokuz Mayıs University, Faculty of Dentistry, Department of Periodontology with a complaint of a gingival growth at right lower premolar area. Patient reported that she realized the mentioned growth first one month ago and she has no pain or bleeding complaint. With the anamnesis of the patient it has been learned that patient has no systemic disease and no drug use. Patient also reported no use of cigarette and alcohol. At the extraoral examination there was no extraoral finding like swelling or lymphadenopathy. At the intraoral examination it was seen that lower right first premolar, second premolar and first premolar teeth were lost at the mentioned area and a firm and granular surfaced gingival growth which seems like pyogenic granulom/ giant cell granulom with the color of pink and red and having 1.5x1 cm sizes was observed over the edentate alveolar cret where first and second premolar teeth should be (Fig. ). There was no pain at the palpation of the lesion. With the extraoral panoramic radiography an impacted premolar teeth was seen at the mentioned area (Fig. ). But there was no change at the bone structure at the exact location of the gingival growth.
With an incision from lower right second incisor tooth to lower right second molar tooth a flap from bone was made and lesion was excised. After then specimen was submitted to histopathologic examination. At the macro magnification (HEx40) basoloid cell islands was observed at the loose connective tissue which shows proliferation to beneath of ceratinized stratified flat epithelium. And at the micro magnification (HEx200) basoloid cell islands which shows reverse palizades at their periphery were observed and pathologic diagnosiz was made as ameloblastoma (Fig. ). After clinical,pathological and radiological examinations lesion was described as peripheral ameloblastoma. At the control examination after three months of excision there was no recurrence and patient has no complaint. Additionally patient