A 21-year-old female, a Saudi student, presented to the Otolaryngology Department as an outpatient complaining of a left upper maxillary alveolar progressive recurrent mass of six months. The mass had started as a small swelling over the left maxillary alveolar ridge where excision had been done accordingly in the dental office. One month later, the mass had reappeared with rapid growth and had never regressed until a facial bulge was visible. On further history, the patient did not mention any problems with swallowing or respiration, and her past medical history was insignificant with no chronic illness and no prior history of exposure to radiation or chemotherapy and no history of benign bone conditions. Regarding her family history, there was no genetic predisposition or other malignancies. Furthermore, surgical and dental history was insignificant with no pharmacological medications and no history of allergies or smoking.
On physical examination, an irregular mass on the left anterior maxillary alveolar ridge measuring around 2 x 2 cm (Figure ) with a missed upper lateral incisor was noted. The overlying mucosa was intact and there was no ulceration. There was no pus coming out of the mass and examination of the cervical lymph nodes revealed no abnormalities. Upon radiological workup, there was no evidence of distant metastasis or any signs of other abnormality.
The recurrence of the mass warranted further investigation as an initial differential of osteomyelitis or other mixed lesions. After obtaining the patient’s written consent, an incisional biopsy was performed under local anaesthesia where the histopathology showed high-grade (G3), chondroblastic osteosarcoma (Figure ).
When we discussed the surgical options and treatment with the patient, she was reluctant to follow the treatment protocol and chose to seek a second opinion. After a few months, she presented with a slight increase in mass size (3 x 2 cm).
A CT scan of the neck done on the same day showed a maxillary lesion with small growth (3 mm). The lesion was seen in the alveolar process of the left maxilla and appeared to be mostly