A 64-year-old male with abdominal wall mass presented for excision of an anterior abdominal wall mass, adjacent tissue transfer, and flap graft under general anesthesia. His past medical history was significant for coronary artery disease status after three stents, hypertension, dyslipidemia, obstructive sleep apnea using home CPAP, and being a chronic smoker. His medication included clopidogrel (stopped 3 weeks before surgery), aspirin (stopped 5 days prior to the procedure), atorvastatin, hydrochlorothiazide-losartan, and metoprolol. He had no known allergies. His body mass index was 38 (height 183 cm and weight 129 kg). Intraoperative monitoring included continuous electrocardiograph (EKG), pulse oximetery, temperature, and automatic blood pressure monitoring with a large size adult blood pressure cuff (cuff size 16 cm width × 36 cm length and blood pressure monitor calibrated every 6–12 months) placed on his left upper arm, and possible pressure points were not found during a secondary survey. General anesthesia was induced through a 20 gauge intravenous catheter placed on the dorsum of the right hand. The patient was positioned supine with the head neutral and both arms placed neutrally alongside the body and secured on the arm board. Arm abduction was less than 90 degrees with padding of the pressure points. Intraoperatively, noninvasive blood pressure was measured every 5 minutes, and it ranged from 160 to 87 mm Hg systolic and from 104 to 51 mm Hg diastolic ( shows the trend of blood pressure measurements). Surgery lasted for about 9 hours (630 minutes). Throughout the surgery, the patient's temperature was maintained normothermic by using warm fluid, a forced air warming device, and maintaining the room temperature between 24°C and 26°C. At the end of the surgery, patient was extubated and transferred to the recovery room. In the recovery room, after two hours, the patient complained of left forearm swelling, pain, and wrist drop. Postoperatively, blood pressure was measured on the same arm every 10 min. Examination