A 57-year-old woman initially presented with a one-year history of motion sickness and headache. She also experienced intermittent nausea, dizziness, imbalance, clouded thinking, fatigue, and head pressure. These symptoms often began within one hour of waking up in the morning and could last up to four days. Although she previously attended vestibular physical therapy, she had difficulty performing some of the exercises due to her sensitivity to positional changes. She also had a history of chronic right neck stiffness, headaches with photophobia during periods of nausea and dizziness, and occasional tinnitus and otalgia. She was otherwise healthy, and followed a ketogenic diet and exercise program for weight control. She took the following oral medications: dimenhydrinate 50 mg as needed for motion sickness, zolpidem 10 mg nightly, multivitamin daily, turmeric one capsule daily, magnesium 200 mg daily, and calcium carbonate supplements with vitamin D 625 mg-125 IU twice daily. Her past surgical history includes bunionectomy, coloscopy, and tonsillectomy. She smoked 1/4 pack of cigarettes per day for 2.5 years during her adolescence and would consume 0.8 standard drinks of alcohol per week. There was a family history of Alzheimer’s disease and heart disease. Her review of symptoms was otherwise unremarkable.
During the initial visit with her primary care provider, the patient reported new nausea with a sudden onset that would occasionally turn into a migraine headache with vertigo. She also reported new mild dyspnea with exertion. As part of her workup, a MRI of her brain was obtained, which showed an 11 x 12 x 9 mm homogeneously enhancing mass at the right cerebellopontine angle and proximal internal auditory canal, suggestive of VS (Figure ). An audiogram showed normal hearing bilaterally with 100% word recognition score in both ears. She was referred to neurosurgery for evaluation and was prescribed meclizine 25 mg by mouth up to three times daily for dizziness and nausea.