A 50-year-old male patient with a high-school diploma sustained head trauma following a car accident. He had no history of previous head trauma, hypertension, diabetes, coronary heart disease, or neurological or psychiatric disease. He also had no family history of neurological or psychiatric disease and had previously been a car maintenance worker. He smoked 10 to 20 cigarettes a day for over 20 years. He did not consume alcohol, and he was married, with 1 healthy daughter and 1 healthy son.
The patient was driving out of a tunnel when he collided with a truck parked at the entrance. He immediately vomited and lost consciousness. Cranial computed tomography indicated multiple contusions and lacerations, diffuse axonal injury, and scattered cerebral hemorrhages. He was administered diuretics, mannitol immediately to reduce intracranial pressure. Several hours later, the patient underwent endotracheal intubation with simultaneous ventilation, and a naso-gastric tube and urinary catheter were inserted. Seven days after the accident, the patient was occasionally able to open his eyes and to move his fingers on his left hand slightly, but demonstrated no response to the external environment. Seventeen days after the accident, the patient was able to respond to external acousto-optic stimuli and had urinary incontinence after removal of the catheter. The patient's condition gradually improved. On the 43rd day after the accident, the patient was unable to understand instructions, could not speak or sit, and showed poor muscle strength. Rehabilitation therapy, including hyperbaric oxygen therapy, acupuncture, physiotherapy, and occupational therapy, was initiated. Approximately 2 months after the accident, the naso-gastric tube was removed, and the patient could eat independently. Four months after the accident, the patient could sit alone and had regained full muscle strength of his left limbs.
However, he sustained intellectual impairment. He could not understand or execute instructions and demonstrated weak physical strength on the right limbs. He continued physical therapy, weight-bearing standing training, limb joint