A 68-year-old man with a history of a distal right femoral diaphyseal fracture that resulted in malunion and right varus knee deformity previously treated with a high tibial osteotomy (HTO) presented with severe osteoarthritic pain of the right knee. The patient had a distal femur fracture at the age of 18 years and was treated conservatively which resulted in malunion and shortening of the leg. At the age of 44 years, he was diagnosed with osteoarthritis and underwent a high tibial osteotomy. However, knee pain continued to get progressively worse especially for the last few years. The patient's social history included using an assisted walking device, being an active cigarette smoker, and combating chronic hypertension. Clinical evaluation and radiographic imaging confirmed the diagnosis of severe bone-on-bone tricompartmental osteoarthritis (). The patient's knee range of motion was significantly restricted from full extension to further flexion of only 90 degrees. The patient previously failed various conventional nonsurgical treatments and wanted to proceed with TKA. Given the complexity of this case, the RATKA MAKO-Stryker surgical arthroplasty system was advised as the surgical method in order to plan for implants that would better fit this patient's specific geometric bony anatomy with the plans of bringing the mechanical axis within 3 degrees of neutral biomechanical alignment. A thorough discussion of the risks and benefits of the surgical procedure and preoperative 3-D computed tomographic images of his knee was performed.
The surgical planning included obtaining a MAKO protocol CT scan. The robotic software converts CT images to a virtual model where a surgeon can plan on implant size, positioning, and joint alignment. As demonstrated from images, this patient had a distal femur fracture, which had resulted in malunion. Because of malalignment, the patient had recurvatum deformity. The use of the anatomical axis and jig-based technique would have resulted in the positioning of the knee implant into hyperextension. Also, it would have been difficult to use the jig-based technique in the setting of severe