A 38-year-old Caucasian male presented to the clinic with concerns of brief ongoing episodes of anxiety every couple of weeks. He described a 10-year history of episodes characterized as a squeezing sensation in the chest followed by palpitations.
He reported having numerous stressful events in the recent and remote past, and a family history significant for generalized anxiety in a number of first-degree relatives. He reported worry and concern regarding his past IV drug use possibly affecting his health at this stage in life. He also described experiencing a "sharp chest pain" that did not radiate and resolved spontaneously within a couple of minutes. These symptoms caused him to stop what he was doing at work and resulted in interference with his daily activities.
He is employed in a slaughterhouse, and he described his job as "physically and mentally demanding" as he handles live animals. He reported work exhaustion and thought stress could be contributing to his symptoms.
He denied presyncope or syncope. He also denied dyspnea on exertion or at rest. He denied any symptoms suggestive of orthopnea, paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea, weight gain, or pedal edema.
At the time of the presentation, he had been using nicotine patches for tobacco cessation. He was not on any prescription, over-the-counter medications, supplements, or herbal remedies. Otherwise, he had no other acute health concerns.
The patient denied any family history of sudden cardiac death or cardiac arrhythmias. The patient has an extensive family history of coronary artery disease (CAD) after 50 years of age. Recently his mother was diagnosed with CAD and underwent percutaneous intervention with stent placement.
Additionally, he has a history of hepatitis C, the treatment of which concluded in 2019, and a history of intravenous drug use in sustained recovery for five years. He is a current smoker and smokes half a pack a day.
The patient's vitals and physical examination including cardiovascular examination were