A female, 32-year-old gravida 2, para 2 who had an initial diagnosis of abnormal four-chamber view of the fetus's heart, was referred to our clinic due to its reputation of advanced research and management. Her first son was healthy. She did not have any systemic illness or a history of chromosomal anomaly, and she had not taken any medication, alcohol, or cigarettes before her admission to our clinic. Her routine obstetric sonographic examination was unremarkable as well. Fetal echocardiography was performed. On fetal echocardiography, a small right ventricle, hypertrophic myocardium, and intact ventricular septum were observed in the four-chamber view of the heart (). The tricuspid valve annulus was 3.7 mm (Z score -4.75), and the pulmonary valve annulus was 2.8 mm (Z score -3.77). The pulmonary artery had an extremely thick pulmonary valve. Antegrade pulmonary blood flow to the lungs was not detected (thick membranous pulmonary atresia), and the pulmonary arteries were perfused by retrograde ductus arteriosus flow. Another intriguing finding of the color Doppler examination was that it detected the turbulent flow from the apex along the pericardium via the right coronary artery to the aorta. This condition is known as VCAC (video 1). Pulse waved Doppler interrogation was performed to demonstrate and further prove the findings of VCAC bidirectional flow (systolic flow towards the aorta and diastolic flow towards the right ventricle cavity) (). Our pediatric cardiology department made the diagnosis of PA-IVS and VCAC. Prenatal workup revealed no signs of other fetal anomalies, and the karyotype obtained following amniocentesis was normal. We consulted with the Department of Maternal-Fetal Medicine to determine the possible treatment options for the patient. In the end, our team decided that there was not any right way to convalesce the patient's predicament. Our council decided that the best way to go forward was to terminate the pregnancy. The patient also accepted