A 57-year-old man with a history of alcoholism and heavy smoking was admitted for disabling back pain. Four months earlier, he had sustained two vertebral fractures (T10 and T11) due to falling; these were treated by kyphoplasty under computer tomography (CT) guidance. Because the back pain persisted 2 weeks after the procedure, he received a zygapophyseal joint steroid injection under CT guidance. Three days later, his C-reactive protein level was 12.5 mg/l and hyperleukocytosis was moderate (13 G/L including 10 G/L neutrophils) and the patient had no fever. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) findings revealed infectious spondylodiscitis (Fig. ). A Staphylococcus saccharolyticus isolate was recovered after 90 h of incubation from one single vial of a first series of three blood culture (BC) sets. The same microorganism was identified from two additional BC series collected 5 and 10 days later after 83 and 100 h of incubation, respectively. It was not possible to perform either culturing or molecular diagnostics using the tissue sample as the patient’s condition did not permit disc biopsy. However, the findings from the blood culture tests indicated a definite diagnosis of spondylodiscitis, though a catheter or spinal device was not inserted in the patient. Using disk diffusion assay, the isolate was multi-drug susceptible including to penicillin and cefoxitin. The patient was treated with 2 g of amoxicillin three times a day for a total duration of 4 weeks after consultation with the infectious disease team. Pain and inflammatory syndrome both gradually regressed, and MRI performed after 12 month showed decrease in hyperintensity (Fig. b). No clear source of the bacteria was identified. The infection was presumably from skin and the bacteria was likely introduced in the surgical site during the kyphoplasty procedure. However, we could not identify any defect in the surgical skin preparation and infection control procedures as well as any particular event causing exposure during the kyphoplasty procedure.