A 47-year-old female, with a history of left breast cancer and total mastectomy followed by neo-adjuvant radiation in 2009, presented to the Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery clinic in December 2014 to discuss options for breast reconstruction. Other significant past medical and surgical histories at the time of her initial presentation included a left posterolateral thoracotomy for complicated pneumococcal pneumonia, three cesarean sections, and 1 ppd tobacco use. Her disease status was closely monitored by her oncologic team and was deemed disease-free as evident in her then most up-to-date negative screening mammogram in 2013.
Upon successful cessation of her tobacco use for a period of six months after the initial consultation, the patient was taken to the operating room in June 2015. With goals to recreate a full C-cup sized breast in a patient with a very thin body habitus (body mass index = 24), our team utilized a supercharged muscle-sparing fTRAM flap in order to safely utilize all four zones of the abdominal flap. Utilizing a two-team approach, the recipient site of the left chest was entered from her previous mastectomy incision, along with resection of the surrounding radiated fibrotic skin. A laterally based pectoralis flap was utilized to dissect up to the second rib, which was then partially resected to expose the left internal mammary artery and two veins. Simultaneously, the transversely oriented abdominal flap was elevated by the second surgeon, being particularly careful to preserve both the superior and inferior epigastric vessels on both hemi-abdominal flaps. Dissection proceeded in the prefascial plane above the anterior rectus sheath in a lateral to medial approach. After the favorable right-sided lateral row perforators were identified, the fascia was incised and the rectus muscle exposed, allowing us to trace the vessels down to the origin of the deep inferior epigastric artery and vein in the right lower quadrant. Care was taken to preserve both the superficial and deep inferior epigastric vessels on both sides of the flap