A 38-year-old male with no significant past medical history presented to the ER with complaints of exertional dyspnea associated with flu-like symptoms, including low-grade fevers, chills, occasional episodes of diarrhea, chest pain, and cough productive of yellow to gray sputum for two weeks. The patient initially went to an urgent care facility five to six days prior to admission where he was diagnosed with pneumonia (CXR not available). The patient completed a course of azithromycin and amoxicillin-clavulanate without improvement in symptoms and thus presented to the ER. He reported exposure to sick contacts (children with an upper respiratory infection) and a history of vaping until two to three weeks prior to admission, which he stopped due to the symptoms. History was unremarkable for any exposure to birds, occupational exposures, immunocompromised status, outdoor activities, or recent travel. On presentation, vital signs were remarkable for temperature 38.2°C, heart rate of 115, respiratory rate 33, and oxygen saturation of 76% requiring 3 liters of oxygen via nasal cannula. Lung examination revealed rhonchi on bilateral bases with associated egophony. Laboratory studies revealed a WBC count of 18.3 with left shift, thrombocytosis, and a lactic acid level of 2.2 mg/dL. CXR demonstrated bilateral lower lobe consolidation (Figure ).
The patient was admitted for severe sepsis secondary to bilateral pneumonia and was initiated on levofloxacin, which was later changed to vancomycin and ceftriaxone. Infectious disease was consulted due to the failure to respond to antibiotics and the possibility of fungal etiology. Over the course of the next few days, the patient did not show significant improvement. Imaging was repeated and included a CT scan of the chest, along with a CXR, for a more detailed evaluation of the lung parenchyma. This showed a rapidly worsening airspace opacities (Figures , ). Antibiotics were adjusted to include doxycycline, and ceftriaxone (dose was increased to 2 g every