A 78-year-old man presented to our emergency department because of acute onset chest pain that started two hours prior to presentation. The pain was retrosternal, pressure-like, moderate in intensity and started upon awakening from sleep. His past medical history is significant for type II diabetes mellitus and pancreatic cancer that was treated with the Whipple procedure 27 years ago. He had coronary artery disease status post percutaneous angioplasty with stenting of the mid right coronary artery (RCA) 12 years ago, and stenting of the proximal circumflex and proximal RCA 17 years ago. A paclitaxel drug-eluting stent (PES) 3.0 x 24 mm was used to stent the mid RCA 12 years ago (Figure ).
The patient is a former cigarette smoker, and does not consume alcohol, caffeine, or illicit drugs. At presentation, he was in mild distress, complaining of typical chest pain persistent despite aspirin administration. On physical examination, the patient was noted to be diaphoretic. His heart rate was 60 bpm, and blood pressure was 110/75 mmHg. Electrocardiogram (ECG) showed ST-segment elevation in the inferior leads II, II, and avF (Figure ).
The patient was loaded with aspirin and clopidogrel and emergently taken to the cardiac catheterization laboratory. Coronary angiography showed thrombotic occlusion of mid RCA DES placed 12 years ago. Immediate percutaneous coronary balloon angioplasty was performed followed by a 3.5 x 16 mm everolimus drug-eluting stent (EES) deployment at a maximum inflation pressure of 14 atm. Following the intervention, excellent angiographic appearance of the artery was obtained with a 0% residual stenosis (Figure ).
Due to the acuity of the situation and the patient’s unstable hemodynamic status, it was difficult to obtain intravascular images of the lesion and tell with certainty what mechanism led to this event. The patient was stabilized and monitored for the following 24 hours with no further complications, and was then successfully discharged home.