A 41-year-old Asian man was transferred to the Center of Trauma Surgery in our hospital 6 hours after injury for the closure of an open infected wound with a large skin defect in his right lower limb caused by an accidental explosion of 100 pieces of a blasting cap. Hemostasis of the wound was achieved by applying pressure and a total of 2500 ml Ringer's solution, which is a kind of balanced salt solution, was given intravenously during the emergency. He was mildly obese, described himself as quite heathy, and had never been admitted to a hospital previously. He reported no chronic medical history, such as primary hypertension, heart disease, diabetes mellitus, an impaired immune system, malignancies, liver cirrhosis, renal failure, or hemodialysis. He also reported no history of infectious disease, such as tuberculosis, any types of hepatitis, or acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS). His medical history revealed no trauma, blood transfusion, other surgical procedures, or other serious event. He had not lived in an epidemic area and had no contact history of radioactive exposure. He denied any family history of inherited diseases. He usually did not smoke tobacco or consume alcohol and had no other unhealthy behaviors. He was a business executive and he often traveled for business.
His blood pressure at admission was 99/50 mmHg, pulse rate was 102 beats per minutes, and his respiratory rate was 21 breaths per minute. On examination, his mucous membrane was dry and his conjunctivae were pale. No positive signs were found during neurological, cardiopulmonary, and abdominal examinations. There was no pain around the kidney area with percussion or tenderness along the bilateral ureteral approach.
A specialized examination revealed that the wounds were located on his right gluteal and were approximately 40 cm × 35 cm in size with a darkened appearance. The margins of the wounds were 2 cm above the bottom of iliac crest, inferior to the superior segment of back side of his thigh, 3 cm interior of the anal cleft, and external to