A 56-year-old female presented for the evaluation of gradual onset bilateral soft tissue masses involving the plantar surface of both feet, with the left foot being significantly more symptomatic. Her past medical history included hypertension and high cholesterol. Social history included gainful employment in a moderately labor-intensive type job and several-year history of smoking. Her physical exam was essentially normal with the exception of somewhat firm, slightly mobile nodular masses involving both plantar foot surfaces in the region of the plantar medical arch (Figure ). Tenderness was only noted involving the two masses on the left foot. Plain radiographs were negative. Conservative therapies were discussed and tried that included shoe gear and activity modification as well as analgesics. The patient declined injection therapy. An MRI was ordered that revealed two discrete soft tissue masses within the plantar fascia consistent with PF lesions without neurovascular encroachment (Figures , ). Surgery was proposed and she wished to proceed with surgery on her symptomatic left foot (Figure ). Risks and benefits were outlined for both complete fasciectomy and wide en bloc resection. The patient chose the latter technique and was advised to refrain from smoking that she did for several days both pre- and post-operatively. Surgery was completed without complications. Wound management included placement of a battery-powered ciNPT device (Prevena™) and light compression bandaging (Figure ). The device remained in place for one week and then was removed. No significant erythema or swelling was seen. Surgical pathology was consistent with two, benign PF lesions. Sutures remained in place for a total of three weeks and were then removed. At this time, the incision was found to be negligibly tender, flat and well coapted. She was non-weight bearing immediately post-operatively through suture removal at which time she was transitioned to a walking boot with instructions to gradually increase weight-bearing activities to tolerance. Rechecks were unre