Our patient is a 71-year-old woman who had been experiencing intermittent episodes of chest discomfort for multiple years. She had a past medical history of uncontrolled hypertension, dyslipidemia, hypothyroidism, obstructive sleep apnea, asthma, and tobacco use. Her past surgical history was significant for laparoscopic cholecystectomy and appendectomy. These episodes were described as a “band of chest tightening” with intermittent radiation to the jaw. The patient endorsed exertional shortness of breath, dizziness upon standing, frequent headaches, and palpitations. She also described fluctuation in her blood pressure with high systolic blood pressures ranging between 160 to 170 mmHg. A documented maximum systolic pressure of 205 mmHg was also reported. She denied orthopnea, paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea, claudication, lower extremity edema, and syncope.
Laboratory work-up was negative for hematologic, renal, or cardiac abnormalities. Electrocardiogram demonstrated regular rate, normal sinus rhythm, and poor R-wave progression which was thought to be secondary to her obesity. The chest X-ray was unremarkable for acute changes. Echocardiography and two weeks of cardiac event monitoring were performed to assess ventricular systolic function and presence of arrhythmias, respectively. Both of these studies were negative for significant disease. Myocardial perfusion imaging and CT coronary angiography studies conducted several years prior were negative for signs of ischemia. A nuclear stress test was obtained which turned out to be unremarkable with no signs of ischemia or infarct. Bilateral renal artery ultrasound was done to evaluate renal artery stenosis as a cause of the patient’s persistent hypertension and was negative.
Despite extensive investigations and evaluation for the cause of her chest discomfort, no underlying etiology could be identified. A decision was made to perform left and right cardiac catheterization which demonstrated only mild atherosclerotic disease (20%-30%) in the mid-portion of the left anterior descending (LAD) artery without any significant coronary artery obstruction (Video ).
Given the indeterminate cardiac workup, an outpatient gastrointestinal referral was recommended. The patient reported to