A 78-year-old Hispanic man presented to the emergency department (ED) of our hospital with abdominal pain accompanied by nausea and bilious emesis. His history was significant for an open appendectomy, laparoscopic cholecystectomy, and umbilical hernia repair. He had no significant family history and did not smoke, drink alcohol, or use illicit substances. The patient denied fever or night sweats but complained of anorexia and unintentional weight loss in the month leading up to admission. His physical examination revealed normal bowel sounds, no tympani on percussion, no palpable masses, no hepatosplenomegaly, no fluid wave, and a soft but diffusely tender and distended abdomen. Computed tomography (CT) of his abdomen and pelvis with oral and intravenous contrast revealed small bowel distention and a short segment of bowel wall thickening with enhancement in the right lower quadrant consistent with a partial SBO, likely arising from either local inflammation or adhesion (Fig. a). He was treated medically with bowel rest and decompression with nasogastric tube placement. The patient reported significant relief shortly after decompression, with complete resolution within 48 hours. His diet was advanced, and he was discharged to home with close outpatient follow-up.
He returned to our ED 2 days after discharge with recurrence of abdominal pain, distention, nausea, and bilious vomiting. Repeat CT of his abdomen and pelvis with oral and intravenous contrast showed a moderate increase in the small bowel distention with a transition point in the left middle abdomen consistent with moderate progression of the partial SBO. CT also revealed a 1.6-cm nodular density abutting the anterior aspect of the gastric antrum and lobulated anterior gastric antral wall thickening concerning for atypical gastritis or a gastric tumor (Fig. b). Because of an unsuccessful trial of decompression, the patient was taken to the operating room for adhesiolysis and possible bowel resection.
Intraoperative findings included a completely obstructive mass within the ileum, a partial obstruction by two masses within the jejunum, and a non