A 32-year-old woman with a history of HHT presented to the emergency department (ED) with acute right hip and flank pain with associated weakness in her right leg.
The patient, as a result of her HHT, had a history of persistent epistaxis requiring embolization and two prior spontaneous subdural hemorrhages that required decompressive craniotomies five years prior to her visit. At that time, computed tomography (CT) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) imaging of her spine demonstrated diffusely dilated vessels that extended from her cervical spine to the base of her thoracic spine, causing compression and deformity of the spinal cord. These were suspected to be secondary to dural AVFs and an AVM at the seventh thoracic (T7) vertebral level. Neurosurgical consultants recommended surgical intervention to prevent myelopathy, but she elected not to undergo surgery because of the potential complications of the procedures.
She was otherwise healthy, did not smoke, drink alcohol, or take recreational drugs. She had emigrated from Ethiopia, and her father had had recurrent episodes of epistaxis that were thought to be secondary to HHT, although this was never formally diagnosed.
Two weeks prior to presentation, the patient had sought care in the ED for right hip and flank pain. At that time, her physical examination showed no definite motor weakness, and she was discharged to follow-up with her physician. She had two subsequent ED visits at other hospitals and was documented to have increasing weakness of hip flexion (4/5), knee extension (4/5), and ankle dorsiflexion (3/5). She eventually needed crutches for mobility. Across these three visits, the patient had negative radiographs of the femur, normal CT imaging of the abdomen and pelvis, and normal MRI of the pelvis.
Her pain and weakness progressed until she lost sensation in her right leg, was unable to bear weight secondary to weakness, and was subsequently bedridden. Additionally, she developed increased urinary frequency and difficulty