A 33-year-old gentleman, working as a school counsellor, with no family history of mental illness, previously diagnosed as bipolar disorder in 2018, was brought to the emergency department of a general hospital after his colleagues called the Emergency Medical Services when they found him in a confused state in his apartment. In the emergency department, he presented with altered level of consciousness and displayed disorganized and agitated behavior in terms of entering a female cubicle and trying to take another patient's mobile phone, damaging an intravenous drip stand, taking a hook from the wall and damaging the tap of an oxygen supply, which was managed by physical and chemical restraints. His manager reported that he was absent from work for three days and that he found anabolic steroids in his apartment. He was then transferred to the psychiatric inpatient unit for further management, with a provisional diagnosis of substance-induced confusion.
At the beginning of his admission, his mental state examination was significant for labile affect, irrelevant speech, derailment, flight of ideas, and persecutory delusions. He was on high risk one-to-one observations precautions and nursing team have reported disorganized behavior in terms of eating cigarettes, tried to burn his genitals with cigarettes, jumping over the nursing station, unable to dress himself, tried to use the female nursing staff washroom, talkativeness, and disturbed sleeping pattern, in addition to altered level of sensorium throughout the day. He also mistook the female occupational therapist for his mother and tried to kiss her feet. Otherwise, he did not display hallucinatory behavior, grandiose delusions, or elated mood. He was vitally stable and he had a BMI of 29. Physical examination was unremarkable except for testicular atrophy. He also reported taking tadalafil 20 mg for erectile dysfunction.
Past psychiatric history is significant for 1 similar episode in 2018 for which patient was admitted in a psychiatric hospital