A 58-year-old female with a history of hypothyroidism, impaired fasting glucose, nonalcoholic fatty liver disease, and stress urinary incontinence presented with left antecubital fossa pain and swelling at an IV placement site. She had undergone an abdominal and pelvic CT scan with contrast 48 hours earlier during an abdominal pain evaluation. The scan itself was unremarkable, but the insertion site became progressively more swollen and painful. She denied any trauma to the area other than the IV insertion. Her medications at the time of presentation were levothyroxine and premarin cream. She denied alcohol and tobacco usage. Her social history and family history were otherwise unremarkable. She was diagnosed with a superficial thrombophlebitis, and supportive therapy with heat and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatories were recommended.
Approximately one month later, she received her first dose of adjuvanted recombinant zoster vaccine in the right deltoid, followed two months later with the second dose, administered to the same deltoid. One month after this second injection, she presented with three weeks of painless soft tissue swelling of the right arm without erythema or loss of function. Complaints of right arm swelling were not corroborated by findings on physical examination, but swelling was apparent on the left arm at the site of the previous phlebitis. Ten days later, the patient reported unchanged swelling, as well as new right forearm tingling without pain. At this time a diagnosis of injection neuritis was given. Within four weeks, the patient presented again, with reports of new pain and swelling in the right antecubital fossa and pain in the right arm, in addition to the previous tingling. Gabapentin 300 mg thrice daily (later increased to 600 mg thrice daily) was prescribed and ultrasound of the right antecubital region was unremarkable.
Over the course of four weeks, her pain and tingling sensations worsened, despite taking gabapentin. The patient now described constant tingling and burning associated with hypersensitivity