A 41-year-old man presented with a tender mass in the upper outer quadrant of the left breast. He reported having this mass since he was 26 years old and noted that it had been increasing in size over the past several months. His past medical history is significant for coronary atherosclerotic disease and depression. The patient denied any known family history of breast cancer. He previously smoked cigarettes, quantified to eight pack-years, but denied alcohol and illicit drug use. On physical examination of the right breast, no mass was palpated. On physical examination of the left breast, there was a solid mass at one o’clock at a distance of 10 cm from the left nipple. The normal right breast and the left breast mass can be visualized on diagnostic mammography (Figure , ). Diagnostic mammogram spot compression was performed on the area of interest in the upper outer quadrant of the left breast, revealing a high-density oval mass with microlobulated margins and associated grouped coarse heterogeneous calcifications (Figures ).
Targeted ultrasound of the left breast showed a solid mass measuring 34 x 34 x 6 mm at the site of the mammographic and clinically palpable mass in the upper outer quadrant at one o’clock at a distance of 10 cm from the nipple (Figure ). The characteristics of the imaging included an orientation parallel to the skin line and an oval shape. Increased vascularity was present.
In consideration of the enlarging left breast mass and the abnormal imaging findings, an ultrasound-guided core needle biopsy of the left breast was performed for tissue diagnosis (Figure ).
Histology of the biopsy revealed smooth muscle bundles, accompanied by fibrous stromal and adipose tissue, which is consistent with hamartoma (Figure ). Pseudoangiomatous stromal hyperplasia was also present (Figure ).
With the imaging and histology findings, a diagnosis of benign breast hamartoma was made without further clinical investigation. Reassurance and education were provided. The patient remained asymptomatic without