A 62-year-old Caucasian male, with no previous ocular or neurological symptoms, experienced a sudden and painless loss of vision in the left eye while swimming. He had no significant past medical history apart from an episode of deep vein thrombosis of the left lower extremity four years ago, provoked by a non-displaced fracture of the tibia after a motor vehicle accident. He also reported a previous history of hospitalization due to an episode of acute left-sided loin pain associated with macroscopic haematuria at the age of 60 years. Then the patient had been thoroughly investigated and no specific diagnosis of renal infarct of unknown origin had been made. Otherwise, he did not take any regular medication and he neither smoked tobacco nor drank alcohol.
On initial examination, he was afebrile and his pulse rate was 82/min and regular. His blood pressure was 130/85 mmHg and there were no abnormalities to find in the cardiovascular or respiratory systems. No carotid or over the umbilicus bruits were audible and pedal pulses were palpable. Physical examination was otherwise normal apart from a clearly swollen left lower extremity accompanied with engorged superficial veins, hyperpigmentation and trophic skin changes. On palpation, there was no tenderness of his left calf muscles and no venous ulcerations were observed. As regards neurological examination it was also unremarkable including the muscle tone, reflexes, coordination and sensation as well as power, in all muscle groups.
Afterwards, the patient was immediately evaluated on the basis of fundoscopic examination that revealed left retinal whitening, macular edema and cotton-wool spots compatible with CRAO (Figure ). The above findings were also evident in the fundus autofluorescence (FAF) imaging (Figure ). Retinal whitening corresponded to ischemic damage to the inner half of the retina with opacification of the retinal nerve fiber and ganglion cell layers due to cessation of axoplasmic transport. The retinal periphery appeared normal. Fluorescein angiography (