A 65-year old woman, non-smoker, with history of arterial hypertonic disease and cardiac atrial fibrillation, was evaluated by computed tomography angiography (CTA) due to suspected internal carotid stenosis. There was no preceding headache or symptoms associated with SAH in the patient history. CTA excluded internal carotid artery (ICA) stenosis, but showed a left middle cerebral artery (MCA) aneurysm in the M1–2 bifurcation with a diameter of approximately 10 mm. The patient underwent uncomplicated surgery via a left lateral supraorbital craniotomy. There was no evidence of previous SAH during aneurysm dissection. The aneurysm was occluded with two curved titanium clips without intraoperative rupture. Intraoperative indocyanine green angiography (ICG) and direct micro-Doppler evaluation were performed to exclude stenosis of both M2 segments. The aneurysm sac was perforated after verified exclusion, and a very small amount of blood was immediately aspirated ().
The application of temporary clips was not necessary. The postoperative course was uneventful. Postoperative CT and CTA performed 1 day after the surgical procedure were without evidence of hemorrhage or other complications. The aneurysmatic sac was completely excluded, without any residuum or signs of parenteral vessel stenosis ().
On the 5th day, during the discharge process, the patient developed aphasia and right sided motor epileptic seizures. An acutely performed CT excluded any major complications; however, CTA revealed vasospasms in both M2 segments of the left middle cerebral artery. Mean velocity measured by Transcranial Doppler (TCD) was 150 cm/s on the left M1 segment. The patient was transferred to the angiography unit, and chemical intra-arterial angioplasty was performed with nimodipine according to our previously published protocol []. The diameter of both M2 segments, as well as the clinical status of the patient improved immediately during the procedure. Mean velocity decreased to 125 cm/s. Nimodipine was then administered intravenously (1 mg/h), and mean arterial pressure was maintained above 90 mmHg. Chemical angioplasty was repeated on the third