A 72-year old man, non-smoker, with a history of arterial hypertonic disease, depression, and vertigo, underwent a diagnostic CT and CTA. There was no preceding headache or symptoms associated with SAH in the patient’s history. CT angiography showed bilateral MCA aneurysms in the M1–2 bifurcation with a diameter of approximately 8 mm on the right side and 7 mm on the left. The patient underwent uncomplicated surgery via a lateral supraorbital craniotomy on the left side after previous uncomplicated clipping of the contralateral right MCA aneurysm three months earlier ().
There was no evidence of previous SAH during both aneurysm dissections. The aneurysm was occluded with two straight titanium clips without intraoperative rupture. An intraoperative ICG and direct micro-Doppler evaluation were performed to verify occlusion and exclude stenosis of both M2 segments. The aneurysm sac was perforated, and a very small amount of blood was immediately aspirated. Temporary clip application was not necessary, similarly to the first case. The postoperative course was uneventful. Routine postoperative CT and CTA performed one day after the surgical procedure was without any evidence of complication or hemorrhage. The aneurysmatic sac was completely excluded, without any residuum or signs of parenteral vessel stenosis ().
The patient was discharged on the 5th postoperative day. During the next day, the patient developed global aphasia and disorientation. The patient was transferred to a local cerebrovascular unit to rule out stroke. An acutely performed CT excluded any complications; however, CTA revealed vasospasms in the M2 segments of the middle cerebral artery on the left side. The patient was transferred back to our center one day later. Mean velocity measured by TCD was 140 cm/s on the left M1 segment. The patient was transferred to the angiography unit and chemical intra-arterial angioplasty was performed with milrinone. Angiography confirmed peripheral vasospasms located in M4 segments ().
The patient’s clinical status improved immediately during chemical angioplasty, and mean velocity decreased to 120 cm/