A 36-year-old Japanese man was referred for medical consultation because of behavioral problems at work, suspected to be caused by his communication difficulties. His history was negative for injury or illness from birth through childhood, and he had no previous diagnoses of any psychiatric disorders, including developmental disorder. His relevant family history was unknown. He successfully graduated secondary school, with no obvious impairments in literacy, and was working as a school janitor at the time of referral. No personality disorders were observed. However, his communication skills were weak, which was considered to be the main cause of his social difficulties at work. However, his life-long language disorder was primarily masked because he was seldom in social situations. He reported occasional alcohol intake and tobacco smoking, but neither to excess.
His workplace stress had recently increased, which was suspected to have likewise increased his communication difficulties. Specifically, he was increasingly unable to follow instructions. After an initial examination by a neurologist revealed no organic causes for his symptoms, he was referred to a psychiatrist at the authors’ clinic. On intake assessment, it was noted that he muttered to himself and communicated poorly with others. Although aphasia was suspected, no diagnosis was given at that time.
At follow-up 2 years later, when our patient was 38 years of age, his Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) score was 28/30, which was within normal limits, and his cognitive subscale score of the Alzheimer’s Disease Assessment Scale–Japanese version (ADAS-cog) was 11.6/70, which was borderline between cognitive normal and mild cognitive impairment [, ]. A second psychiatrist took over his case. This psychiatrist conducted examinations regularly for the next 3.5 years before reducing his visits to once per year. He continued this annual schedule from age 41 to 44 years. Again, no diagnosis was given at that time.
At age 44 years, our patient again encountered workplace