The patient is a 39-year-old gentleman originally from Central America who currently lives in Southeast Georgia. His past medical history is significant for HIV/acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS), alcohol abuse, tobacco dependency and bone marrow biopsy-proven leishmaniasis who was transferred from an outside hospital. He denied any recent travel. At first presentation, the patient had diffuse moderate abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting, chills and dysphagia. On physical exam, the patient was tachycardic to a rate of 140 beats per minute and the patient was found to have mild abdominal tenderness, but the physical exam was otherwise non-contributory. The patient was leukopenic as well as thrombocytopenic. For treatment, the patient was placed on amphotericin B for his leishmaniasis as well as highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) for his HIV/AIDS infection. The patient was then discharged home on a 3 month course of amphotericin B in addition to continued HAART therapy with outpatient follow-up.
Over the course of the next 6 months, the patient initially recovered from his acute illness, but later developed acute abdominal pain and tenderness along with nausea, which prompted presentation to the emergency department. On exam, the patient was found to have a fine nodular skin rash across his chest, abdomen and parts of his back consistent with cutaneous leishmaniasis. Additionally, he was found to have continued thrombocytopenia. A bone marrow biopsy was done to differentiate whether the new onset symptoms were secondary to his HIV or related to a relapse of the his leishmaniasis. The bone marrow results are shown in 
, which demonstrates various stains showing the presence of macrophages filled with Leishmaniasis amastigotes. The patient was again initiated on intravenous amphotericin B for 6 weeks inpatient and discharged with the plan to get an amphotericin B infusion every 3 weeks on an outpatient basis. The patient was steadily improving on his inpatient treatment and was cleared for discharge home, the patient, however, was lost to follow-up.
Several years later the patient returned to the emergency