A 42-year-old Saudi male patient was diagnosed as colonic inflammatory Crohn's disease 10 years ago on azathioprine. The patient presented to the emergency room (ER) complaining of headache for 2 days which started suddenly and was progressive, generalized, moderate to severe, and not relieved by analgesics. The patient had no history of seizures or decreased level of consciousness, no history of trauma or blurred vision, and no history of weakness, vomiting, fever, and neck pain. He had history of mild headache attacks, but this time it was more severe.
The patient had no history of abdominal pain, diarrhea, skin rash, joint pain, and jaundice. He was taking his medications regularly. He had no history of smoking or using of any NSAIDs and no significant family history. His Crohn's disease activity index (CDAI) was 97.
Regarding Crohn's disease, the patient was diagnosed 10 years ago as inflammatory, nonstricturing, nonfistulazing colonic Crohn's disease without perianal disease when he presented with chronic abdominal pain, chronic diarrhea, and weight loss for more than 3 years before the time of diagnosis. Colonoscopy at the time of diagnosis showed few aphthous colonic ulcers with normal terminal ileum. Colonic biopsy showed chronic colitis. CT enterography was done and showed normal small bowel. The patient was started on steroid therapy for a short period with azathioprine 150 mg orally daily as a maintenance therapy.
Since the time of diagnosis, the patient was following the gastroenterology clinic regularly. He was doing well with no abdominal pain or more diarrhea. He gained weight more than 10 kg within a 4-month period. His routine laboratory investigations were extracted and reviewed which confirm remission of disease clinically and biochemically. The patient was planned for colonoscopy to assess the mucosal and histological remission.
The patient was conscious and oriented to time, place, and person. He was not pale or jaundiced , with normal fundoscopy and normal vital signs and afebrile