A 32-year-old lady presented to the emergency department (ED) with symptoms of dyspnea, chest pain, cough, and subjective fevers since three days. The patient was reportedly in good health before she received a dose of intramuscular naltrexone for the treatment of alcohol and opiate dependence on the day of symptom onset. The patient had been smoking cigarettes consistently for the past six years. On arrival, she was noted to be hypoxic, and oxygen supplementation was initiated through a nasal cannula. Examination was pertinent for tachypnea and bilateral crackles. The patient was afebrile. While in the ED, she was placed on a non-rebreather mask because of worsening hypoxia. Chest X-ray showed diffuse bilateral pulmonary infiltrates (Figure ). A CT angiogram of the chest was ordered, which was negative for pulmonary embolism but showed diffuse bilateral pulmonary infiltrates as well (Figures , ). Initial laboratory data were pertinent for elevated WBC count with mild peripheral eosinophilia (700 cells/microliter). Levofloxacin was administered intravenously for the treatment of suspected community-acquired pneumonia.
The patient was admitted to the medicine service and was started on intravenous methylprednisolone for the management of suspected AEP secondary to injectable naltrexone given the temporal relationship between administration of the medication and onset of symptoms. Bronchodilator therapy was initiated for wheezing. Antibiotics were discontinued upon admission. The patient’s oxygen requirements improved. Pulmonology consultation was requested, and the patient underwent bronchoscopy. BAL studies showed predominance of lymphocytes (62%) followed by neutrophils (32%) with no eosinophils, which was not suggestive of AEP. However, histology of the lung biopsy sample showed the presence of eosinophils in the lung parenchyma consistent with drug-induced eosinophilic pneumonitis (Figure ). HIV viral load testing and hepatitis C serology were negative, BAL bacterial cultures (including tuberculosis) remained sterile, and the BAL fungal culture grew rare yeast, which were considered to be contaminants. BAL fluid testing for Pneumocystis jirovecii