A 47-year-old female was admitted to our hospital for evaluation of involuntary movements of her left side. She was woken up by the involuntary movements of her left limbs during sleep. The movement gradually increased in intensity and reached a plateau approximately one day before her clinic visit. There was no headache, language difficulty, visual disturbance, or paraesthesia. Her past medical history revealed two artificially induced abortions during the youth and a cesarean section 20 years ago. She was found to have hypertension 10 years ago and was prescribed with amlodipine 5 mg once daily. Her family history was negative for any neurological disorder and she did not have any history of trauma, diabetes, and smoking. On neurological examination, the movements involving her left arm and leg were involuntary, continuous and nonpatterned, which were consistent with hemichorea-hemiballismus (Video 1 and 2). Muscle strengths were all 5/5 and there were no cerebellar findings. The cranial nerves were intact and all modalities of sensation were normal.
The patient underwent two conventional electroencephalograms that were normal. Emergency cranial computed tomography (CT) had excluded hemorrhage and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) failed to reveal more diagnostic information (Fig. A). Extensive laboratory examinations including complete blood count, glucose, electrolytes, coagulation studies, assessment of hepatic, renal and thyroid functions were unremarkable (Table ). Given the acute onset of the clinical manifestation, ischemic cerebrovascular disease was considered to be the most probable diagnosis despite negative diffusion-weighted imaging. Dual antiplatelet therapy combined with statin treatment were initiated and the patient was transferred to department of neurology for detailed evaluation. A significant increase of blood flow velocity in the right MCA stem was revealed by transcranial doppler sonography. Time-of-flight MR angiography on day 4 after admission showed segment narrowing of the right MCA (Fig. A) and the double lumen sign (Fig. B), on the basis of which isolated MCA dissection was strongly suggested. In order to evaluate the criminal intracranial