A 64-year-old male was admitted to the orthopaedic ward with fever. He had a past medical history of smoking, nephrolithiasis and paraplegia following a motor accident 30 years ago. The patient suffered a mid-shaft fracture of his left femur 12 months earlier, without dislocations, treated conservatively with no operation. There were no recent gastrointestinal events, skin diseases or pressure sores.
A computed tomography (CT) scan on admission demonstrated avascular necrosis of the left hip joint with joint destruction and many fluid collections in the soft tissue around the joint. Blood tests showed a white blood cell (WBC) count of 20 210 µl−
1, and a C-reactive protein level of 29.5 mg dl−
1. Synovial fluid tapping revealed a WBC count of 80 000 µl−
1. Synovial fluid cultures and blood cultures were sent for analysis.
Septic arthritis of the left hip joint was diagnosed and the patient was treated with antibiotics including metronidazole and underwent surgical drainages of the hip. After initial surgical drainage, the patient developed multiple organ failure including cardiovascular instability, decreased urine output and acute respiratory failure due to septic shock and was admitted to our general intensive care unit (GICU). During the next 4 days in the intensive care unit, the patient continued to be septic with elevated temperatures (39.2 °C) and continuous leukocytosis (20 000 µl−
1). During this period, intensive supportive management included the administration of vasopressors and broad-spectrum antibiotics.
On a detailed workup of sepsis, multiple bloods, sputum, wound and stool cultures were obtained. Diagnosis of septic arthritis was confirmed by a positive synovial fluid for . A repeated CT scan of the left hip, pelvis and lower abdomen with contrast media demonstrated multiple, inoculated abscesses around the left hip joint area spreading to the left flank and anterior abdominal wall (). No evidence of colitis or other potential intra-abdominal source of septic arthritis was encountered