A 66-year-old human immunodeficiency virus- (HIV-) seronegative female, a native of the Dominican Republic, presented to our hospital for a foreign body sensation when swallowing solid food for the past 1 month. Her medical history was notable for type 2 diabetes mellitus and pulmonary Mycobacterium avium complex (MAC). She was diagnosed with pulmonary MAC 15 months ago and was currently being treated with azithromycin 500 mg, rifampin 500 mg, and ethambutol 2000 mg, which was administered three times per week. Her last negative sputum culture was 1 month prior to presentation. She endorsed compliance with the medication, and her last A1C was 6.8%. She smoked 1 pack of cigarettes for the last 41 years and has abstained from smoking since the diagnosis of MAC. Her physical exam revealed a 1 cm painless, firm, and nonmobile lymph node at the left side of her neck. Laboratory test results including complete blood count, basic metabolic panel, and liver function test were unremarkable. Barium study was negative for structural abnormality, and flexible fibrotic laryngoscopy showed normal appearance of the larynx. Computed tomography (CT) showed a lymph node, 1.4 cm in size, at the level 5 of the left neck. After an additional 6 months of MAC treatment, her dysphagia did not improve. Repeat neck CT revealed the 1.4 cm lymph node, unchanged from previous (Figures and ). Biopsies of the abnormal lymph node were taken (Figures and ).
The initial differential diagnostic considerations included nontuberculous mycobacterial lymphadenitis, tuberculous lymphadenitis, and bacterial, fungal, or protozoal infection. Metastatic squamous cell carcinoma arising from the aerodigestive tract or lymphoma is less likely in this setting due to lack of warning symptoms. Excisional biopsy was not performed at the beginning of presentation in this case because we decided to actively surveil while the patient was under MAC treatment, given that we successfully achieved a negative sputum culture. However, after an