A 29-year old female diagnosed with SLE for 4 years complicated with grade II lupus nephritis presented with status epilepticus. She denied a history of fever on admission, but was treated with cyclophosphamide 1 month prior for an episode of cerebral lupus. She had noticed a papule over the left deltoid region which progressed to an ulcer over 1 week. Fever was noted following several days of hospital admission and the ulcer site became painful. She had worked in paddy fields several months prior to the admission when she was in good health. However, she could not recall any precipitating injury at the affected site during working. She is a mother of two and both pregnancies were uncomplicated. She denied history of alcohol abuse or smoking.
On examination she was emaciated and had a GCS score of 15/15 following recovery of status epilepticus. There was no obvious lymphadenopathy. At presentation, the size of the ulcer was about a 3 cm lesion and it gradually developed in to an ulcer with a necrotic center with surrounding erythema. A tentative diagnosis of pyoderma gangrenosum was made with the appearance of the ulcer (Figure ). It gradually advanced into the underlying muscle over 3 weeks of onset despite the antibiotic treatment. Examination of the cardiovascular, respiratory systems, and the abdomen was normal.
Her full blood count, blood picture, and other supportive investigations showed evidence of microangiopathic hemolytic anaemia, which was suggestive of thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura which resolved following plasmapheresis. Her ESR was persistently normal. Renal functions were stable during hospital stay, so were the liver profile. Chest radiography revealed evidence of bilateral mild pleural effusions and echocardiography revealed a thin rim of pericardial effusion and good cardiac function. MRI, MRA brain showed evidence of Posterior Reversible Encephalopathy Syndrome. Repeat imaging showed resolved changes.
A punch biopsy of the skin was done from the lesion and sent for fungal studies and histopathological studies. The direct microscopy examination revealed wide and irregular ribbon-like nonseptate hyphae with right