A 62-year-old male with a past medical history notable for bipolar I disorder, nephrogenic diabetes insipidus, and metastatic colorectal cancer presented with a chief complaint of nonradiating suprapubic abdominal pain. He had no associated emesis or nausea. He did not note any worsening of his symptoms with oral intake of food. He stated that he was last able to urinate 24 hours prior to presentation. Prior to this, he denied any sexual contacts in the past year and denied urinary frequency out of his baseline. He reported no penile discharge. While he did not have fevers, he did endorse chills and night sweats. He denied any recent acetaminophen use. His abdominal pain continued to worsen over the past 24 hours prompting his presentation to our institution's emergency department.
His past medical history was notable for bipolar I disorder which was previously controlled with lithium for over 30 years but complicated by the subsequent development of nephrogenic diabetes insipidus. He was initially started on lamotrigine 150 mg in the morning 1 year ago and then transitioned to olanzapine 10 mg in the morning 3 months prior to presentation. His medical history is also notable for prior diagnoses of stage IV colorectal cancer, stage 3 chronic kidney disease (CKD stage III), hypertension, and dyslipidemia. His stage IV colorectal cancer was diagnosed approximately a year and a half prior to this admission. He underwent three cycles of palliative chemotherapy with folinic acid, fluorouracil and oxaliplatin, also known as FOLFOX. Treatment was complicated by the development of bacterial colitis and sepsis requiring laparotomy and segmental resection of the colon. He was able to later restart FOLFOX and received 6 additional cycles as well as palliative chemotherapy; however, follow-up computed tomography (CT) and carcinoembryonic antigen levels revealed progression of his metastatic disease and the patient elected to stop further interventions.
Surgical history was notable for hemicolectomy approximately 18 months ago as mentioned above as well as an