A 68-year-old Hispanic man with ESRD initially presented to an outside urgent care clinic with a 3-day history of a painful rash over the right thorax. His examination revealed a dermatomal, vesicular eruption at the T9 dermatome consistent with zoster reactivation. He was started on oral acyclovir 800 mg five times daily. The recommended renal dosing for a patient receiving dialysis would have been 200 mg twice daily. Over the following 4 days, his family noted progressively worsening confusion. On the day of admission, the patient’s son called emergency medical services due to the patient’s confusion, agitation, and auditory hallucinations. Prior to this presentation, the patient had lived independently and was able to complete all activities of daily living without assistance. His past medical history included ESRD, hypertension, type 2 diabetes mellitus, anemia due to chronic renal disease, and secondary hyperparathyroidism. Prior to arrival at our hospital, his medications included amlodipine 5 mg oral once daily, aspirin 81 mg oral once daily, metoprolol succinate 150 mg oral once daily, and 20 units of insulin NPH-regular 70–30% twice daily. Oral acyclovir 800 mg five times daily was the only new medication, started 4 days prior to arrival. He received outpatient dialysis three times weekly. Per the report of his family, he did not smoke or drink alcohol. His family was unaware of any family history of neurologic disorders. He was unemployed and had no recent travel exposures. He had not been previously vaccinated against VZV.
Upon physical examination, he was agitated and oriented only to self. His vital signs upon presentation included a body temperature of 37.3 °C, heart rate of 100 beats per minute, blood pressure of 177/90 mmHg, respirations of 20 breaths per minute, and oxygen saturation of 93% on 2 L by nasal cannula. Examination of the patient’s head and neck revealed no signs of trauma. His pupils were equal, round, and reactive to light. His oropharyngeal