Case 3 is a 45-years-old woman with an initial diagnosis of MS who was referred to our center to establish care. She initially developed bilateral lower extremity numbness and impaired balance at age 21. Her past medical history was significant for oral contraceptive pills (OCPs) since the age of 17 and cigarette smoking. Due to the mild symptoms when first evaluated, she was not started on any disease-modifying therapy and was managed conservatively. Several years later in her mid-30s, she saw a neurologist secondary to experiencing word-finding difficulty, short-term memory loss, and difficulty walking. Her past medical history was remarkable for migraine, depression, mild short-term memory loss, ataxia, restless leg syndrome, urinary urgency, and stroke. She was on a 3-months course of glucocorticoids for her MS symptoms at that time. The family history was significant for migraine headaches. She underwent a lumbar puncture at a different center, which was reportedly positive for MS; however, the report of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) study was not available to us. In addition, an MRI of the brain demonstrated periventricular and subcortical white matter hyperintensities in the frontal and parietal lobes.
She was started on short-term intravenous steroids. A few years later, she returned with several new neurological deficits including numbness and dysesthesias around the mouth, right leg weakness, and right foot drop which were thought to be MS relapses. At that time, the brain MRI demonstrated periventricular and subcortical white matter T2 hyperintense lesions in the frontal and parietal lobes (). The clinicians diagnosed her as having an aggressive form of relapsing-remitting MS and decided to start dimethyl fumarate (disease-modifying therapy). Reviews of the MRI at some later visits suggested findings inconsistent with MS and more suggestive of a vasculopathy. She was referred to a vascular neurologist, who performed a cerebral angiogram that was negative for vasculopathy. Shortly thereafter, she developed a deep vein