The patient is a 56-year-old male with a history of congestive heart failure secondary to alcoholic cardiomyopathy. He initially presented with a progressive bilateral lower extremity discoordination, urinary incontinence, and altered perineal sensation. He had a history of low back pain that was exacerbated three weeks prior to presentation while shoveling snow. During this time, he experienced a subjective functional decline in his bilateral lower extremities with progressive difficulty walking. His pain radiated from his lower back to the posterior bilateral thighs, with the left worse than right. In addition, he endorsed urinary incontinence with uncontrolled dribbling of urine for a few days prior to his presentation. He denied any bowel function changes. Other than his cardiac history, he did not have other significant medical history; he does not smoke and has never had surgery on his spine previously.
On initial evaluation, his exam was notable for full (5/5) strength in his bilateral upper and lower extremities, although he cannot bear his own weight on his legs. He had normal rectal tone, very slight subject loss of light touch to perineal region, normal (2+) reflexes at patella and achilles, and normal Hoffman testing. However, he did have abnormal Babinski testing bilaterally.
The patient was initially referred for neurosurgical evaluation given an MRI lumbar spine demonstrating spinal stenosis at L2-3 and L3-4 (Figure ). However, the Babinski testing raised concern for myelopathy, and a cervical and thoracic spine MRI were obtained. The MRI of the cervical spine demonstrated mild degenerative changes. The MRI of the thoracic spine demonstrated a large left T1-2 synovial cyst causing severe compression with associated T2 signal change within the spinal cord (Figure ). Given the clinical myelopathy, T2 signal changes on MRI, and the lack of radiculopathy or neurogenic claudication, the patient was offered a T1-2 laminectomy for synovial cyst resection prior to future consideration of lumbar decompression. Due to his