Here, we present a case of a 55-year-old Caucasian female with a history of substance use disorder and a comorbid bipolar disorder, who presented to the local general hospital with a history of the fragmentation of a single personality into different personalities under emotional stress and under the influence of a drug. Multiple aspects of her personalities were reported, including the following: a personality of a seven-year-old child, a personality that would behave as a teenager, and another that acted like a male person in addition to her normal 55-year-old personality. She reported that she had been constantly dominated by her alternate personalities and became aware of their existence when people around her informed her, usually after a situation ended. She reported that stressful situations and substance abuse could aggravate the fragmentation of her personality. This was found to be mostly an involuntary phenomenon with seldom memory of the event.
While transitioning between these personalities, she was found to be violent even to people who were close to her. This could range from being suicidal to homicidal for which she was arrested twice in the past. She had to be isolated and restrained by being locked in a room and calling the police. As a result, she was hospitalized in a mental institution for a significant period at least two to three times in the past. Under the influence of stress or substances like marijuana or cocaine, her personality would split into various personalities. These states were very different from one another in terms of age or gender.
One of her alternate personalities behaved as a seven-year-old child and would show the same interests and choices that included becoming moody or a self-arrogant personality. While in these states, she could hurt herself or had weeping spells if her wants were not met.
Another personality acted as a teenager with some sharp choices and dressing. Increase in substance abuse, alcohol use, and smoking would lead to multiple