The patient was a 50-year old man (body mass index = 29.8 kg/m2) who contacted his physical therapist via telephone for a chief complaint of worsening left sided numbness and tingling. The patient owned his own company and was quite active. The patient's symptoms began insidiously two days prior and he had not contacted his physician about his concern. The patient reported that when he awoke in the morning, his left arm and leg were tingling and felt heavy. Further questioning revealed that the patient also complained of left ankle weakness, and slight unsteadiness with walking. Also, he had not been feeling well and had been experiencing increasing bouts of unexplained fatigue over the previous two months that were now interfering with his work and recreational activities. The patient denied any right sided symptoms, facial paralysis, dizziness, dysphagia, dysarthria, drop attacks, diplopia, weight loss, or problems with bowel or bladder function. The patient's past medical history was unremarkable and he denied any medication use. He had quit smoking 24 years ago. His family history revealed that his mother had succumbed to a malignant gliobastoma at age 45 and his father had been diagnosed with colon cancer at age 65. Due to the concern that the patient's presentation was consistent with possible sinister pathology, the physical therapist referred the patient to his primary care physician for an immediate evaluation. The patient was evaluated by his physician the next day. Magnetic resonance imaging of the brain revealed a large (4 cm) parafalcine mass that was characteristic of a meningioma in the right parietal region ().
The patient was immediately referred to a neurosurgeon and underwent a craniotomy and tumor resection 10 days later; over the course of those 10 days, the patient also experienced seizure like activity on two separate occasions. Post-surgical pathology reports indicated an increased MIB-1 index which is concerning for increased risk of recurrence (;