A 68-year-old man with a history of hypertension, diabetes, and chronic kidney failure was undergoing treatment as an outpatient for angina pectoris and atrial fibrillation that was diagnosed 2 years prior to the carcinosarcoma. He reported a history of heavy smoking for approximately 40 years; moreover, his father had a history of lung cancer. The patient did not have any clinical symptoms of cancer, and no remarkable changes were noted on physical examination. However, a routine blood test done 3 months earlier indicated anemia (hemoglobin: 9.6 g/dL), and the patient’s stool sample tested positive for occult blood. We tested for tumor markers and found the squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) antigen was slightly elevated at 3.3 ng/mL, but the carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) and CA 19–9 were within the reference range. An upper GI endoscopy showed a bleeding, irregular, protruding lesion located on the posterior wall of the lesser curvature within the body of the stomach (Fig. a); the lesion was biopsied and identified as a poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma. Moreover, at the lower part of the esophagus, there was a slightly concave lesion that was entirely separate from the gastric tumor. Biopsy specimens from the esophageal lesion indicated SCC. The patient was scheduled for surgical tumor excision. First, en bloc resection via endoscopic submucosal dissection was performed for the esophageal cancer, and the pathological diagnosis was well-differentiated SCC with negative margins and slight infiltration of the mucosal lamina propria. At a later date, segmental gastrectomy was performed for the gastric tumor. The proximal gastric surgical margin was confirmed to be negative by rapid assessment. The resected gastric tumor was subjected to histopathological examination. Macroscopically, the gastrectomy specimen had a protruding lesion measuring 41 × 29 × 18 mm3 (Fig. b). The cross-section showed a grayish-white tumor with growth mainly on the mucous membranous surface as well as areas with a cystic appearance and a translucent cartilage-like matrix in parts (Fig. c