A 72-year-old, asymptomatic, postmenopausal woman sought medical attention for routine exams with a personal history of systemic arterial hypertension, dyslipidemia, and previous appendectomy. She reported a right breast quadrantectomy in June 2016 by ductal breast adenocarcinoma (stage IIA) followed by radiotherapy. She had no family history of breast cancer and denied smoking or alcoholism. Her physical examination showed only a scar from previous surgery on her right breast. Abdominal ultrasonography on February 2019 detected a well-defined nodular lesion on the tail of the pancreas, approximately 2 cm in diameter and without compromising adjacent structures. Other imaging tests were not performed due to a significant allergy to radiological contrast. She underwent endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) which confirmed the finding of abdominal US but detected two more hypoechoic, homogeneous, round areas, with well-defined limits, of soft consistency to elastography, two located in the uncinate process and one in the pancreatic tail, measuring 7 × 8 mm, 11 × 10 mm, and 19 × 12 mm, respectively (Figures and ). They did not invade or compress the main pancreatic duct or vascular structures. EUS-FNA core biopsy was performed on all lesions with a ProCore 20G needle (Cook Medical) (). An additional finding of the exam was the presence of gallbladder stones.
The histological results of the punctures revealed that the lesion located on the tail of the pancreas and the largest in the uncinate process were secondary microduct or small cell-associated epithelial neoplasia isolated (metastatic ductal carcinoma). The smallest located in the uncinate process was negative for neoplasia. The immunohistochemistry of the material was positive for the GATA3 marker, which concluded that it was an invasive carcinoma of mammary origin in the form of triple negative discesa cells (estrogen negative, progesterone negative, and HER2 negative receptors) (). The patient was diagnosed with late metastases of breast cancer to the pancreas and resumed follow-up with the oncology team.