A 58-year-old lady, nurse by profession, residing in the United States, presented to us in the second half of 2019. Her history was remarkable for systemic hypertension, dyslipidemia, and chronic persistent asthma. She denied any history of smoking or tobacco product use. She did not have any environmental or professional exposure to agents triggering her asthma. Her asthmatic symptoms dated back to late adolescence and had progressed in severity since then, with significant worsening over the last 3 years. She was steroid dependent for the last 15 months. Despite being on a maintenance dose of 10 mg of prednisolone per day, she used to experience nocturnal symptoms and needed salbutamol inhalations on an average 3-4 times a week. She used to get exacerbations once a month needing hiking up of prednisolone dose to 40 mg per day for 5-7 days. Her detailed evaluation was done in the United States. Her spirometry showed persistent obstructive ventilatory defect. Her compliance to medications was ascertained, inhaler technique was supervised, and medications were optimised. Thyroid abnormalities, gastroesophageal reflux, allergic rhinitis, and vocal cord dysfunction were ruled out by appropriate evaluations. She was obese (BMI 33) with no snoring or excessive daytime sleepiness measured by the Epworth scale. Cardiac function as measured by ECG and 2D ECHO were normal. CT chest showed no parenchymal shadows, bronchiectasis, or mucoid impaction. She had no features of anxiety or depression ascertained during a formal psychology evaluation. Her IgE levels were <10 mg/mL on multiple occasions in the United States as well as during her current evaluation. She was considered for therapy with biological agents (omalizumab) but therapy with this agent was not instituted as her IgE levels were below the range approved for therapy. She was having significant steroid adverse effects including truncal obesity and osteopenia.
With this background, she presented to our outpatient department. Her blood counts revealed a normal total leucocyte count (7700 per cubic mm []) with 6 percent eosinophils