This study discusses the case of an 86-year-old man who was admitted to hospital for a three-week history of increased blurring of vision, vertigo on head movement and worsening cognition. On admission, his Montreal Cognitive Assessment score was 13/30 which was abnormal for him, as there was no previous history of significant cognitive impairment. Examination of the cranial nerves revealed horizontal nystagmus upon left lateral gaze as well as horizontal binocular diplopia, and incomplete abduction of his left eye. Initial visual field assessment showed a left inferior quadrantanopia. There were no motor or sensory deficit across all four limbs; however, the patient was noted to have left upper limb dysdiadochokinesia with past-pointing, pronator drift, and an ataxic gait. There was no reported headache or loss of consciousness.
The patient reported no history of recent illnesses. His past medical history included ischaemic heart disease, mild vascular dementia, hypertension and gastro-oesophageal reflux disease. The patient had no significant family history, minimal alcohol consumption and was an ex-smoker several decades ago. There was no history of foreign travel to indicate an infective cause for symptoms. His pre-admission medications were aspirin, amlodipine, atorvastatin and isosorbide mononitrate.
Full blood count, and urea and electrolytes were found to be unremarkable. Liver function tests and serum ammonia were also within normal limits. Clinically, this patient was diagnosed with a posterior circulation stroke and as such, his antihypertensives were reduced to avoid hypoperfusion during his stroke disease.
He subsequently received a CT of the head that revealed no acute intracranial infarction or haemorrhage; however, the occipital lobes showed diffuse and symmetrical low attenuation changes predominantly affecting the white matter (Figure ). This imaging was able to provide a provisional diagnosis; however, it was later confirmed with MRI. MRI returned high signal on T2 and fluid-attenuated inversion recovery (FLAIR) sequences, which extensively and bilaterally affected the grey and