This is a 51-year-old male who presented acutely after he sustained a mutilating injury to his dominant right hand while using a large tire saw at work. He had a complete avulsion of the thumb and near-complete amputation of the index finger at the metacarpophalangeal joint. The zone of injury extended proximally to the radius, and severe damage was sustained by the trapezium and scaphoid bones. There was significant soft tissue injury of the radial and dorsoradial aspect of the hand, but his third, fourth and fifth digits were not involved. He had intact sensory and motor function to the ulnar three digits. The amputated thumb was placed on ice and transported with the patient to the hospital.
The patient was taken emergently to the operating room for possible replantation. Careful examination revealed bony amputation of the entire thumb, through the first metacarpal and trapezium. There was multilevel soft tissue injury of the thumb, and hence, it was not suitable for replantation. The second finger had multilevel injuries, with no appreciable blood supply. The index proximal phalanx and the second metacarpal had severely comminuted fractures rendering it nonsalvageable (Figure ). A revision amputation of the second finger was performed, and a temporary negative pressure therapy was applied to the damaged radial aspect of the hand.
Multiple reconstructive options were discussed with the patient, including simple soft tissue coverage with a skin graft, osteoplastic reconstruction with a toe-to-thumb transplant, and a single-stage pollicization of the middle finger to reconstruct the thumb. The patient had a significant medical and social history including his active tobacco and cocaine use, in combination with poor glycemic control, which put him at increased risk of wound complications with any surgical intervention. We discussed the utility of a great toe-to-hand transplant for thumb reconstruction, but being a laborer, the patient declined to sacrifice his foot function in addition to his already significant hand disability. The