A 50-year-old male patient was admitted to our hospital for thoracic surgery on March 24, 2020, because of chest tightness and shortness of breath for more than 6 months. The symptoms of chest tightness were not obvious when the patient was calm, but worsened when he was active 6 months ago, the results of the CT scan showed no abnormality at the local hospital. The symptoms of the patient was not relieved after taking antimicrobial drugs (the specific drug name and dosage were unknown).
The patient was admitted in our department for further treatment. There existed no obvious abnormality on physical examination, but fiberoptic bronchoscopy and puncture biopsy revealed an adenoid cystic carcinoma in the left main bronchus on March 25, 2020 CT (Fig. ). Because the tumor invaded the carina and inferior segment of the trachea, and the large tumor body located behind the major cardiac vessels, the left lung function of the patient was almost lost. But the coronary angiography showed no obvious abnormality. The electrolytes, serum chemistry, liver and kidney function tests, clotting studies, electrocardiogram, immunohistochemistry, and other relevant tests were performed before the operation. The patient reported no surgery history but a history of smoking and drinking for almost 25 years.
Low-dose oxygen therapy was given to relieve the symptoms of dyspnea, and atomization inhalation, antiasthmatic, expectorant, and antitussive drugs were administered intravenously to relieve cough and sputum symptoms. Considering the risk of traditional left thoracic approach cause by aorta block, the oncology, radiotherapy, intensive medicine, anesthesia, and pathology department were combined for multidisciplinary consultation. A sequential right-left bilateral thoracic approach was chosen for the surgery after discussion. On April 2, 2020, the patient underwent a thoracoscopic-assisted and ECMO-supported right-left sequential bilateral thoracic approach to the lower tracheal carina and left pneumonectomy for lung cancer radical surgery, pleural adhesion, and cauterization, as well as fenestration of pericardium under general anesthesia. During