A 60-year-old African American male presented to his pulmonologist with a one-month history of persistent productive cough. He has been producing clear mucous, without any blood. His cough has been progressively worse throughout the past month. His cough was worse during the day and exacerbated by cold beverages and cold air. The patient denied other symptoms including shortness of breath, dyspnea on exertion, chest pain, hemoptysis, subjective fevers, chills, or night sweats. He denied typical symptoms for seasonal allergies and gastroesophageal reflux. The patient has a past medical history of sickle cell trait and atrial fibrillation. His past surgical history is notable for a laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy resulting in a 150-pound weight loss five years ago. He has a family history of sickle cell disease, diabetes, and peripheral vascular disease, without any cancer. He also denied any weight loss, changes in appetite, dysphagia, or odynophagia. He denies any history of tobacco use or other recreational drugs but has a previous history of alcohol use. The patient has no occupational exposure to hazardous material and is a bus operator for the past several years. He denied any recent travel. He lives alone and is functional and independent at home without any need for supplemental oxygen. The patient had experienced a similar cough approximately one year prior with associated fevers, otalgia, and chest congestion. At that time, he was treated with a course of antibiotics resulting in complete resolution of his symptoms.
His vital signs on presentation were within normal limits, and he was saturating well above 95% on room air. On physical examination, the patient appeared comfortable and was in no respiratory distress. He was well developed and well nourished. He was alert and oriented to person, place, time, and events. Cardiovascular exam was unremarkable. Pulmonary exam revealed normal respiratory effort and normal breath sounds, with no stridor, wheezes, rhonchi, or rales. The patient also