A 64-year-old heavy smoker male patient was admitted for the first time to our urology department for hematuria and dysuria. His past medical history was unremarkable. He had a transurethral resection of the prostate 5 years ago. He did not have any familial history of urothelial or bladder cancer. Physical examination and blood tests were normal. In the emergency room, an abdominal and pelvic ultrasound showed a thickening of the right lateral wall of the bladder with mild right side hydronephrosis (). On cystoscopy, a large tumor was found on the anterior and right lateral walls of the bladder, with invasion of the bladder neck and the prostate. The anatomopathological study of the tumor showed a neoplastic proliferation of large malignant polygonal cells with dark, irregular nuclei and frequent mitosis. A second component made of cylindrical cells was also present. Muscular invasion was documented with multiple necrotic areas (). Immunohistochemistry showed high positivity for CD56 marker and synaptophysin, minor and heterogenic positivity for cytokeratin 7, and negativity for cytokeratin 20 and CDX2 (Figures –). Overall, the histopathological study corresponded to LCNC with minor adenocarcinomatous component. Disease extension was assessed using computed tomography (CT) scan of the thorax, abdomen, and pelvis. A 6 × 3.5 cm mass of the anterior and right lateral walls of the bladder was identified, with diffuse infiltration of the perivesical fat and multiple necrotic iliac lymph nodes bilaterally (). Neither visceral nor bone metastasis was identified. Initially, the patient refused the treatment and was lost to follow-up. Two months later, he was readmitted to the hospital for similar complaints and additional pelvic pain. Blood tests were normal. A new CT scan revealed an increase in the size of the tumor, occupying now the majority of the bladder lumen, a persistent right hydronephrosis, and no new secondary lesions. The tumor was resected again, until the appearance of the muscular layer of the bladder, and the patient was discharged after stabilization. A later