A 24-year-old woman presented to our clinic with a recurrent stabbing pain on her left side, below the nipple. She reported the pain as 8/10 in intensity. She noted that her pain was intermittent and sometimes occurred at rest, too. She had no associated shortness of breath, but the pain was associated with mild palpitation. Her symptoms were such that she had presented to the emergency department many times, and she had been diagnosed with muscular pain at each visit and discharged on simple analgesics. The patient was known to have hypothyroidism on replacement therapy with 50 mcg of levothyroxine, and she had a history of mild iron deficiency anemia due to heavy menses and an iron replacement regimen. She was not a smoker and did not consume alcohol, nor had she had any previous surgeries.
On assessment, her vital signs were within reference limits, and the findings of her systemic examination were unremarkable. Her laboratory investigations results were also within reference limits, including cardiac enzymes. Her hemoglobin was 10.5 mg/dl, ferritin was 11 µg/L, and her glycated hemoglobin concentration was 5.3%. Her renal function, electrolytes, thyroid function, and liver function were all within reference limits.
We conducted an electrocardiogram (Figure ), chest X-ray, and echocardiography, the results of which were all within reference limits and/or unremarkable. Her heart rate response to exercise was appropriate, and her blood pressure was within reference range at rest but blunted in response to exercise.
Although the pain was atypical for cardiac ischemia, we obtained a CT angiography (CTA) because the other investigations could not determine the cause of her chest pain. Interestingly, her CTA revealed a short intramyocardial course of the LAD segment (Figure ).
The diagnosis of MB was made at that time, and our patient was treated medically with beta-blockers and calcium channel blockers for a few months with follow-up observations. She remained symptomatic,