The proband 36-year-old Sri Lankan man was the third son born to a healthy first-degree consanguineous couple (). He presented with severe generalized muscle pain, stiffness, and dark-coloured urine for three days. A day prior to his presentation, he had engaged in prolonged physical exertion (cleaning his apartment and lifting heavy weights). He has had previous episodes of intermittent generalized muscle pain and stiffness since the age of fourteen years, following sports activities at school and when he skipped meals. However, it had not come to medical attention. There were three similar episodes of generalized muscle pain, stiffness, and dark-coloured urine following prolonged low-intensity exercise at the ages of 20, 24, and 27 years. The second episode was treated at a local hospital which was complicated with acute kidney injury due to rhabdomyolysis without identifying the aetiology. The other two episodes lasted for about one week and resolved spontaneously.
His eldest brother (45 years) also suffered from a similar episode at the age of 20 years following a mountain hike. He experienced generalized muscle pain and dark-coloured urine. He was treated with haemodialysis and required ventilator support. However, aetiological diagnosis was not established. He subsequently had several milder episodes with muscle pain and stiffness related to physical exertion. His parents were healthy and had no symptoms suggestive of muscle disease.
The proband was not on any regular medications such as statin therapy and herbal medications and did not have any features suggestive of hypothyroidism. He did not have a recent history of trauma or infections. He occasionally consumed alcohol and smoked cigarettes at social events. However, he had no history of illicit substance abuse.
On examination, his body mass index was 24.1 kg/m2. He was afebrile and had generalized muscle tenderness. Neurological examination showed muscle power in upper limbs, lower limbs, and neck flexors as 5 (medical research council's scale) with normal reflexes, and vital capacity