A 52-year-old man was admitted with a 2-week history of yellowing of the skin and sclera with general weakness. He had a past history of hypertension for 5 years, alcohol consumption and smoking for 20 years. He had no history of viral hepatitis, surgical interventions or drug intake relevant to liver damage. Upon admission, his clinical laboratory findings revealed a TB level of 351.1 μmol/l, an ALT level of 252 U/l, and an ammonia level of 209 μmol/l; his mind was still clear. He was put on the liver transplant waiting list with a MELD score of 47 points under the diagnosis of acute liver failure with hepatic encephalopathy and hepatorenal syndrome. Though he received active conservative treatments, his hepatic encephalopathy developed into a hepatic coma on day 4, and he was admitted to the medical ICU on day 5. In the ICU, he received artificial liver treatment, ventilatory support, continuous renal replacement therapy and norepinephrine to maintain vital sign stability; he also received a routine orthotopic liver transplantation from a non-heart-beating donor with an incompatible blood type (AB to O) on day 6.
Intraoperatively, liver atrophy with little as cites and swelling of the pancreas were observed, confirming acute pancreatitis and the anhepatic time was 52 minutes. The donors liver was suitable for the patient, and the surgery was successful.
The patient regained his consciousness on postoperative day 2, and in the afternoon of that day, his blood pressure dropped; suspecting intraabdominal hemorrhage, he received emergency laparotomy during which surgeons found blood clots around the first hepatic hilum and extensive oozing blood in the surgical wounds. After sufficient hemostasis, the patient was sent back to the ICU and began to revive on postoperative day 3. His condition had improved, and tracheal intubation was removed on postoperative day 7; he started to use immunosuppressive agents (tacrolimus (FK506) + Mycophenolate mofetil + glucocorticoid). On