Colorectal Cancer History
A 30-year-old male presented to the oncology clinic at a tertiary healthcare center in Jeddah complaining of painless rectal bleeding, which was progressive in nature. It became persistent with every bowel movement for a duration of ten weeks with no other associated symptoms. Upon further questioning, the patient revealed that he is a smoker for more than 10 years with no family history of malignancies. Regarding laboratory investigations, all initial parameters were within normal limits except for slight anemia and a mildly elevated carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) of 7 ng/ml. Subsequently, the patient had a biopsy done in a different hospital setting, which showed invasive adenocarcinoma of the rectum. The patient then returned to the oncology clinic and a Computed Tomography Scan as well as a Magnetic Resonance Imaging of the pelvis was done, which showed rectal cancer with no evidence of distant metastasis (T3N1M0). Consequently, neoadjuvant therapy was started in the form of 25 cycles of radiotherapy along with chemotherapy in the form of Xeloda (Capecitabine) tablets 825 mg/m2, equal to 1500 mg in the morning and 1000mg in the evening.
The patient then underwent abdominoperineal resection surgery for tumor removal as no peritoneal metastasis evidence was found, with removal of 20 lymph nodes which were histopathologically negative for malignancy. Subsequently, he completed four cycles of six planned cycles of XELOX (Oxaliplatin and Capecitabine), which the patient refused to continue due to neuropathy, over a period of four months and was lost to follow up.
Therapy Related Myeloid Leukemia
The patient presented to the emergency department six months after he was lost to follow, complaining of abdominal pain, distention, and bruising spots for few days. The abdominal pain was moderate in intensity and the ecchymosis was found in multiple areas throughout his body. Regarding his lab investigation, pancytopenia was seen with hemoglobin 8.9 g/dL, white blood cell