A 70-year-old man presented in 2017 after discovery of a hypervascular, expansile, 7 cm pancreatic body mass involving the splenic vein on routine surveillance CT scan (). He endorsed 1 year of diarrhea and steatorrhea that he had not sought medical care for but denied weight loss, appetite changes, fatigue, pain, or jaundice. He had a history of RCC and underwent a left nephrectomy and adrenalectomy in 2002. Additionally, he developed adenocarcinoma of the ampulla of Vater and was treated with pancreaticoduodenectomy in 2003.
He developed pulmonary metastases from the RCC and was treated with right lung segmentectomy in 2006 and three bilateral CyberKnife treatments in 2010, 2011, and 2013. He had surveillance CT scans roughly every 6 months from the discovery of the 2010 lung metastasis until 2015 and then yearly thereafter. He never received any chemotherapy for either the RCC or PDA. He is a former smoker.
Unfortunately, records of his prior malignancies, treatments, and surgeries were limited. His metastatic workup consisted of a CT scan of the head, chest, abdomen, and pelvis, which revealed no other sites of tumor except the 7 cm mass in the body of the pancreas, and testing his carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) tumor marker level, which resulted as 0.9 ng/mL. The two main differential diagnoses were metastatic RCC versus recurrent PDA. Imaging characteristics, timeline of the mass development, and normal CEA level were the investigations used to determine that metastatic RCC was most likely and supported the decision to resect the mass.
The patient underwent completion pancreatectomy and splenectomy to resect his newly discovered pancreatic lesion. Surgical exploration and dissection revealed that the previous pancreaticoduodenectomy had been completed entirely antecolic. The gastrojejunostomy was able to be left intact throughout the duration of the procedure, whereas the hepaticojejunostomy was reconstructed due to its initial position being too far anterior in relation to the current surgical bed. Due to vascular invasion, a part of the