The patient is a 70-year-old Caucasian male with no known past medical history who presented to the emergency department (ED) by rescue with syncope and appeared acutely ill. He had not seen a physician for over 15 years. He has a smoking history of 50 pack year. During initial assessment in the ED, he was found to have a large, bleeding, ulcerative wound posterior to his left ear. However, diagnostic evaluation for his presenting complaint was notable for ischemic ST depressions in the inferior and anterolateral electrocardiogram leads and up trending serum troponins, resulting in the diagnosis of acute coronary syndrome. He was admitted to the hospital and treated for a non-ST elevation myocardial infarction with subsequent percutaneous coronary intervention and stent placement. When his condition stabilized from a cardiac perspective, additional history revealed that a “red rash” initially developed adjacent to his left ear about 15 years ago. The rash grew slowly and ultimately became ulcerated with purulent discharge. His wound care at home consisted of washing the area with soap and water and letting it air dry. Physical exam revealed 7.5 x 6.0 cm ulcerated plaque with rolled borders, peripheral hemorrhagic crust, and purulent drainage on the left postauricular area and upper neck (Figures , ).
Also, the examination of his left upper eyelid revealed a waxy, pink plaque with telangiectasia. A punch biopsy of both lesions confirmed basal cell carcinoma. CT of the neck with contrast showed invasion of the ulcerated lesion into the distal left sternocleidomastoid muscle and its insertion, and loss of the fat plane between the ulcerative lesion and upper left trapezius muscle. Surgical resection was recommended with the possibility of adjuvant hedgehog inhibitor therapy with vismodegib treatment conditional on lymph node involvement. His surgery date was delayed due to repeated hospitalizations for complications of ischemic cardiomyopathy and ultimately, he expired prior to intervention five months following index presentation.