An 85-year-old woman presented with a bulky tumor in the collecting system of a congenital solitary left kidney. Her past medical history includes significant chronic obstructive pulmonary disease with a 2 pack-day smoking history more than 50 years. She has a history of recurrent low-grade non-muscle invasive bladder cancer (NMIBC) for the last 7 years for which she received intravesical BCG treatments. Her last recurrence in the bladder was 3 months prior showing non-invasive low-grade urothelial carcinoma.
Laboratory tests revealed normal renal function including serum creatinine of 0.69 mg/dl. A computerized tomography (CT) scan with a urographic phase demonstrated lobulated urothelial thickening of the left renal pelvis without hydronephrosis (Fig. ). CT imaging of the chest did not identify metastatic disease.
The patient underwent flexible ureteroscopy and nephroscopy with ureteral washing and biopsy. A sessile tumor greater than 2 cm was visualized in the renal pelvis towards the upper pole infundibulum. Two adequate specimens were obtained in order to determine the disease grade and were consistent with low grade urothelial carcinoma.
After a detailed discussion with the patient about the risks, benefits, and possible complications of KSS, the patient elected to undergo percutaneous treatment with laser ablation of the UTUC in her solitary kidney. Prior to the procedure, a lower pole percutaneous nephrostomy tube was successfully placed under sedation by Interventional Radiology.
The patient was positioned in prone split leg position. We cystoscopically confirmed that there was no tumor recurrence in the bladder. A guidewire was passed through the nephrostomy tube, ureteroscopically grasped with a nitinol basket and was taken out to achieve through-and-through access. After placing a 12.7 French ureteral access sheath under fluoroscopy, we visualized the renal pelvis again using the ureteroscope and dilated the percutaneous tract with a balloon dilatator under direct vision and placed a 28 French Amplatz sheath, which allowed the introduction of a