A 35-year-old female, who attended the outpatient clinics of the Thoracic Surgery Service, was referred by the general practitioner for presenting with dyspnea and persistent episodes of coughing. Physical examination revealed bilateral diffuse crackles upon auscultation of the lungs. She had a 4-year history of recurrent episodes of pneumonia, which had required hospitalization and antibiotic management. No information about the features of the episodes and the specific therapy she had received was available, for this was the first time she was seen in our facility and there was no access to prior clinical records. There was no past history of cigarette smoking or secondhand smoke exposure and her family history was negative. A computed axial tomography (CT) scan of the chest was requested. Three weeks later, she attended a follow-up visit, and her CT scan revealed a multicystic mass vascularized by an aberrant vessel in the posterior segment of the lower left lobe (). The patient was scheduled to undergo a total pulmonary lobectomy of the lower left lobe, which was postponed by two months due to administrative procedures.
Upon hospital admission for surgery, blood tests revealed a high white blood cell count of 22.2 × 109/L (reference range: 3.5–10.5 × 109/L) with neutrophil predominance. Normal serum values were found for electrolytes, creatinine, hemoglobin, glucose levels, pH and lactic acid ().
A lung fragment measuring 12 × 11 × 6 cm and weighing 251 g was obtained for histopathology study. Gross examination of the resected specimen revealed irrigation by an aberrant artery to nonfunctional pulmonary tissue. Tissue sections showed two whitish multilocular cystic areas filled with purulent exudates; the largest area measured 4 × 3.5 × 1 cm and the smallest 2.5 × 2 × 1 cm. Microscopic examination by hematoxylin–eosin (H&E) staining in the tissue resected from the cystic areas evidenced multiple inflammatory infiltrates with the presence of colonies of a filamentous nonsporulating bacillus (