A 59-year-old male with a history of hemoptysis for two months was previously admitted to a different hospital where chest X-ray had revealed an abnormal shadow in both upper lungs (Fig ). The patient had complained of a recent left visual field defect and was subsequently referred to our institution for a definitive diagnosis and treatment.
He was a heavy smoker (40 pack-year). Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) performance status (PS) was 1. Computed tomography (CT) scan showed cavity formation in both upper lobes (Fig ). In the cavity of the right upper lobe, there was an 18 mm nodule which was suspected to be a fungus ball. There was a 30 mm tumor shadow adjacent to the left upper lobe cavity. Positron emission tomography-computed tomography (PET-CT) scan revealed high level uptake of fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) in the upper lobe tumor shadow and mediastinal lymph nodes (Fig ). Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the head showed an 11 mm nodule in the left choroid (Fig ). Tumor markers were elevated (CEA: 62.1 ng/mL) and β-D glucan and aspergillus antigen were both positive. However, a relatively high amount of hemoptysis continued for one month, which made it difficult to perform bronchoscopy for pathological diagnosis.
Therefore, we conducted a pathological confirmation by surgical resection. First, as initial surgery, a wedge resection of the right upper lobe was performed to prevent pulmonary hemorrhage. Additionally, we performed a wedge resection of the left upper lobe to confirm a pathological diagnosis of the left tumor suspected of lung cancer two weeks after initial surgery. From the right lung specimen, there were necrotic changes and massive inflammatory cell invasion around cavity wall. Grocott stain showed typical Y shape filamentous fungi were present in the cavity, identified as Aspergillus fumigatus (Fig ). From the left lung specimen, lung adenocarcinoma was diagnosed pathologically. PD-L1 stain (22C3 antibody) showed tumor proportion score