An 81-year-old man with medical history significant for atrial fibrillation (on rivaroxaban), chronic kidney disease, hypertension, hyperlipidemia, glaucoma, gout and melanoma status post excision presented with cholecystitis that was managed with a cholecystostomy drain at another institution and symptoms resolved. Four months later he represents with several days of nausea, bilious vomiting, and abdominal pain. At presentation, he had normal bowel function with a last bowel movement approximately two days prior to admission. The patient was a former smoker and non-drug user without alcohol history. He had no significant family history recorded. On physical exam, he was afebrile, and his vital signs were notable for irregular heart rhythm, consistent with atrial fibrillation with rapid ventricular response (heart rate in the 130 s), and he demonstrated moderate right upper quadrant tenderness; his cholecystostomy tube remained in place with dark, thick bilious drainage and flushed easily. Laboratory work on admission showed white blood cell 10.9 K/cu mm. Liver enzymes were normal with aspartate amino transaminase of 15 U/L, alanine amino transaminase of 9 U/L, alkaline phosphatase of 78 U/L, and total bilirubin of 1.2 mg/dL. CT scan demonstrated pneumobilia, massive gastric distension, and an obstructing 5.8 cm calcified intraluminal mass in the first and second portion of the duodenum ().
The patient was placed on broad spectrum antibiotics to control early a potential development of cholangitis and a nasogastric tube was placed for gastric decompression. Heart rate control was managed with betablockers and calcium channel blockers. In preparation for surgery, his anticoagulation was held, and total parenteral nutrition was initiated.
The patient underwent exploration via a right subcostal incision. The location of the impacted stone was readily identified in the first and second portions of the duodenum (D1 and D2, respectively) which were severely inflamed up to and including the pylorus, with the gallbladder adherent to the anterolateral surface of D1 and D2