A 68-year old male, with a past medical history remarkable for an 88 pack-year smoking history and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease on supplemental oxygen, underwent an annual lung cancer screening with a computed tomography (CT) scan of the chest ordered by his primary care physician. CT demonstrated an increase in previously identified lung nodules as well as five new nodules, fluid within the right lung and ipsilateral mediastinal adenopathy. Subsequent bronchoscopy and lymph node biopsies demonstrated pulmonary adenocarcinoma that was EGFR negative, ALK negative, ROS1 negative, BRAF wild type, and highly positive for programmed cell death protein 1 (PD-1) (>50%) with a tumor proportion score of 100%. Surveillance magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the brain (1 mm cuts) demonstrated a single, avidly enhancing 11 × 7 × 12 mm lesion along the mesial surface of the right frontal lobe within the cingulate sulcus with surrounding vasogenic edema (). As such, his primary disease was considered stage IV (T0N2M1b). He was started on pembrolizumab immunotherapy by medical oncology and referred to neurosurgery for further treatment considerations of his single metastatic intracranial lesion.
Risks and benefits of treating and withholding treatment for the single metastatic intracranial lesion were discussed at length with the patient. Given the patient's poor pulmonary status and the location of the brain metastasis, we recommended SRS. However, the patient refused treatment other than pembrolizumab but was amenable to considering intervention should the lesion progress on follow-up imaging. Four cycles of pembrolizumab (200 mg every 3 weeks) were planned with follow up MRI thereafter to revisit treatment options based upon imaging findings. Repeat MRI (1 mm cuts) 3 months after initiating pembrolizumab demonstrated complete radiographic resolution of the intracranial lesion and associated vasogenic edema without any new interim findings (). Follow-up positron-emission tomography 9 months after starting treatment demonstrated no focal accumulations within the brain parenchyma but with persistent yet decreased uptake within the right upper lobe