A 21-year-old man with dyspepsia, gastroesophageal reflux disease, and anxiety, presented to the emergency department with a complaint of right upper quadrant abdominal pain for the past eight hours. As per the patient, the pain started gradually after having dinner and increased in intensity until it was unbearable, prompting him to seek medical attention. He described the pain as sharp and constant in nature that radiated to the back. It was associated with a feeling of nausea, however, he denied any vomiting. He denied any fever, diarrhea, constipation, or any signs of gastrointestinal blood loss. The patient was recently discharged from the same hospital a day earlier, where he was admitted for epigastric abdominal pain and fifty pounds of unintentional weight loss, over a period of four months. The epigastric pain was chronically present for the past six months. Prior testing had included a normal upper endoscopy.
An ultrasound of the abdomen during that visit had demonstrated cholelithiasis without radiographic evidence of cholecystitis or biliary obstruction, and the common bile duct had measured three millimeters in diameter (Figure ). For evaluation of weight loss, a push enteroscopy was performed, followed by a colonoscopy the next day. The push enteroscopy revealed patchy erythematous pre-pyloric mucosa, reported as foveolar hyperplasia on pathology. The colonoscopy was uneventful, the quality of the bowel preparation was good and the terminal ileum was intubated. No manual pressure or change in patient position was required. The patient was discharged home the next day after his colonoscopy, and upon discharge, he did not complain of any abdominal pain. He did not have any prior surgeries, did not smoke cigarettes, drink alcohol, or does drugs. His family history was largely non-significant and he did not travel anywhere recently. Vital signs during this second visit showed a heart rate of 82 bpm, a blood pressure of 140/69 mmHg, oxygen saturation of 96% on room air, and a temperature of