A 61-year-old woman came to our hospital for persistent cough in the last 2 years, initially treated as an allergic bronchiolitis without any improvement. Her medical history was notable only for a prior isterectomy due to fibromatosis. She denied smoking habit.
In August 2005, a chest X-ray showed a small single lesion in the left lung. At the same time, a CT scan of the chest showed evidence of hyper-dense tissue of ~2 cm around the lower left bronchus.
In September 2005, we performed a bronchoscopy with transbronchial biopsy, leading to the diagnosis of angiosarcoma. To ensure that it was not a metastatic lesion, we performed a magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the abdomen followed by an 18-fluorodeoxyglucose integrated with computed tomography (18F-FDG PET/CT). Neither showed evidence of any other atypical lesion. Primary angiosarcoma of the lung was diagnosed.
In October 2005, a left lower lobectomy was performed by thoracotomy, without any major complications after the surgical procedure.
The histological examination confirmed the initial diagnosis of angiosarcoma, with immunohistochemistry positive for myocyte nuclear factor (MNF116) and CD34 and partially positive for Factor VIII and CD31. A hilar lymph node was found positive for local invasion.
After 1 month from surgery, she was undergone chemotherapy with docetaxel plus gemcitabine (four total cycles given), associated with radiotherapy on the mediastinum (~50 Gy in 25 fractions). Patient performed 3 years follow up by chest and abdomen CT with contrast enhancement until 2008, which showed normal radiological findings, free from the tumor lung disease.
In 2009, the patient was admitted to our Unit for left thoracic pain and suspicious for rib fractures. She underwent to a chest CT with contrast enhancement showing a neoformation of 3.5 × 2 × 1.5 cm at the level of the left intercostal space, between the tenth and the eleventh rib. Due to the previous history of angiosarcoma of the lung, patient underwent surgery in