An 87-year-old man with a past medical history significant for chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) and subsequent anemia of chronic disease, pulmonary nodule, obstructive sleep apnea (OSA), coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG), and percutaneous coronary interventions (PCI) for coronary artery disease presented with over a year history of exertional dyspnea that had progressed in the last few weeks before his presentation.
Our patient had been a one pack-per-day smoker for 50 years with a remote past history of occupational asbestos exposure. The first CABG was complicated by disruption of the left phrenic nerve and left-sided diaphragmatic paralysis leading to severe dyspnea. The patient followed in cardiology clinic for his numerous cardiovascular comorbidities. Over a year before the patient’s presentation, he was admitted for dyspnea that was diagnosed as secondary to acute on chronic symptomatic anemia in the setting of recurrent epistaxis with a background of MDS. History of a recent prior admission with symptoms of angina but an unremarkable nuclear stress test prompted the primary team to perform an exercise stress echocardiogram to investigate his dyspnea. The stress test was limited by dyspnea with pulse-oxygen saturation ranging 92%-96% on room air and was negative for both electrocardiographic and echocardiographic evidence of ischemia at the achieved workload. On the echocardiographic imaging part of the test, it was noted that the inter-atrial septum was aneurysmal. A subsequent complete transthoracic echocardiogram (TTE) confirmed that the inter-atrial septum was aneurysmal with no color Doppler evidence of an ASD. The estimated ejection fraction on both these investigations was recorded to be 60%-65%. Over the course of time following this admission, the patient underwent multiple hospitalizations for diverse complaints such as weakness, rectal bleeding, hematuria, urosepsis, syncope, and fever. During this period of time, he also underwent multiple follow-up echocardiograms that showed no significant changes when compared to prior studies. It was only until a month prior to his current presentation that a transesophageal echocardiogram (TEE