A 45-year-old female with a history of diabetes mellitus presented with complaints of episodic intense itching and tingling sensation on the lower half of the body for one week. These episodes began and ended suddenly within a few seconds. She also complained of difficulty in walking and bilateral prickling sensation in the upper limbs for the last week, following the recent flu. She also has a history of multiple admissions in the hospital due to recurrent walking abnormalities and numbness and tingling of both hands. These symptoms were resolved after a few days and she experienced similar symptoms in lower parts of the body. She also reported intermittent psychiatric symptoms including severe fatigue, aggression, and loss of energy for the last two years. She also had a history of falls following the signs and symptoms. There was no history of trauma, cough, or contact with a person with a chronic cough, and no band like sensation. She is not an alcoholic and does not smoke.
Initial evaluation revealed a temperature of 98 °F, blood pressure of 110/80 mmHg, heart rate of 95 beats per minute, respiratory rate of 19 per minute, and oxygen saturation of 98% on room air. On an extensive neurological examination, she had spastic quadriparesis with lower limb muscles affected more than the upper limbs. The general sensations were reduced in the lower limbs. However, numbness and sensory loss were noted in the glove and stocking pattern in the upper extremities. There was no sign of meningeal irritation or cranial nerve deficit. On the psychopathological examination, the patient exhibited reduced incitement and a slow thought process.
The symptoms were suggestive of central brain lesions, and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) was performed, which revealed multiple small rounded periventricular plaques in both hemisphere and along with the long axis of the corpus callosum (fluid-attenuated inversion recovery/FLAIR sequence) and multiple fresh inflammatory areas after gadolinium enhancement (Figures and 2). MRI of the spine was normal. On