Case one presentation
A 63-year-old African American male with past medical history significant for hypertension presented with a two- to three-week history of progressively worsening abdominal pain, nausea, and vomiting. Patient endorsed dark stools a few weeks prior and 13-pound unintentional weight loss over a period of two months. His physical exam was significant for generalized muscle wasting and lab results showed anemia. He denied any tobacco, alcohol, or illicit drug use. Patient subsequently underwent abdominal CT followed by MRI, which revealed gastric outlet obstruction due to a 5.3 cm antropyloric mass with infiltration of the proximal duodenum, pancreatic head, and superior mesenteric vein. Subsequent biopsy confirmed gastric adenocarcinoma and staging workup showed a cT4bN0M0 gastric cancer. The patient was assessed by surgical oncology and was considered a poor surgical candidate because of invasion of the underlying superior mesenteric vein by the gastric mass. He was referred to radiation oncology and medical oncology. After discussion with the patient, a decision was made to pursue definitive treatment with chemoradiation.
He was planned for radiation therapy with a dose of 45 Gy in 25 fractions (fx) to the gastric mass and regional lymph nodes with a sequential boost to a total dose of 59.4 Gy in 33 fx to the gross disease using intensity modulated radiation therapy (IMRT) and daily image guidance (IGRT). The patient was asked to be nothing by mouth (NPO) two hours prior to radiation and also received concurrent capecitabine. For most of his treatment course, he tolerated the treatment well but did have tongue mucositis from chemotherapy. He began noticing dysphagia, occasional epigastric burning pain, and weight loss towards the end of his treatment course. As he approached the final three fractions of his boost radiation, due to nausea, vomiting and weight loss, the patient ended his treatment early, receiving a total dose of 54 Gy in 30 fx.
One day after his final radiation treatment, a CT abdomen