A 42-year-old non-smoking male presented to the outpatient clinic with a 6 week-history of dyspnea. His medical history was otherwise unremarkable. General examination revealed a healthy male without signs of respiratory distress and normal vital signs. Breath sounds were unremarkable except for a left sided inspiratory wheeze. Blood tests were normal and a chest X-ray revealed no abnormalities.
In order to evaluate the inspiratory wheeze a bronchoscopy was performed which showed a well-circumscribed hypervasculated mass on the lateral wall of the left main bronchus with subtotal occlusion of the left main bronchus (A and B). A biopsy was taken for histological examination. However, 1 h after the procedure, the patient coughed up a large piece of tissue which was histologically confirmed to be a large part of the ‘remaining tumor’. This was further confirmed by a second bronchoscopy performed three weeks later showing a relatively small residual tumor (C).
A computed tomography scan was performed to assess the lymph nodes and parenchymal involvement which showed a fibrotic lesion in the left main bronchus ().
The histological assessment of the biopsy taken during the original bronchoscopy showed a granulomatous inflammation. Meanwhile the immunohistochemistry () of the dislocated tumor showed an atypical spindle-shaped cell proliferation with mitotic activity and was positive for EML4 (echinoderm microtubule associated protein-like 4) and ALK. These findings were most consistent with a diagnosis of an inflammatory myofibroblastic tumor. The presence of ALK suggests the neoplastic nature of this tumor which makes it a distinctly different entity than an inflammatory pseudotumor (IPT) []. The definite diagnosis of IMT was made in a multidisciplinary meeting taken into account the patient characteristics and all pathological features. The agreed management plan was one of laser coagulation and (local) follow-up.
Laser coagulation of the remaining tissue was performed by means of a rigid bronchoscopy to remove the remaining tumor and prevent local recurrence. The end result observed after 3 months was