A 77-year-old woman was referred to our department after she requested surgical treatment for a tumor located near the gastric fornix. She underwent a preventive esophagogastroduodenoscopy 2 years and 7 months prior to the referral. The examination had revealed a submucosal tumor-like lesion in the fornix, which measured 10 mm. After this diagnosis, she was referred to her previous physician. Contrast enhanced computed tomography (CT) revealed a low density, round mass, measuring approximately 20 mm that was located between the upper stomach and left lateral segment of the liver (Fig. a). Additionally, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) revealed that the mass showed a high signal intensity on T2-weighted imaging and seemed to be distinct from the stomach (Fig. b). It was determined that the tumor would require careful follow-up. A follow-up MRI was performed 5 months later, and it showed slight growth of the tumor. An endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) was also performed, and it revealed a cystic structure continuous with the gastric wall. Contrary to the previous CT and MRI results that suggested the presentation of an extra-gastric tumor, the EUS results suggested that a gastrointestinal stromal tumor (GIST) could not be ruled out. Owing to the conflicting results, the patient was referred to the endoscopy division of our hospital two years ago for detailed examination. On admission, abnormal symptoms such as fever, anemia, and jaundice were not observed, and her performance status was good (Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group score of 0). She had a history of Sjögren syndrome but had no history of other systemic diseases such as diabetes and hypertension. She had no history of smoking and alcohol abuse. Additionally, she had no family history of malignant diseases. Laboratory studies were within normal range. The EUS was re-examined, and it was concluded that the cystic tumor with solid components did not to originate from either the liver or the stomach. Fine-needle aspiration biopsy was not performed considering the