We describe a 55-year-old man with RP who died from apparent sudden cardiac death. He was diagnosed with RP at age 34, however his symptoms dated back to the age of 20. The patient developed saddle nose deformity at age 22, but was only diagnosed with RP when he developed recurrent auricular chondritis at the age of 34. His disease was further characterized by intermittent hoarseness, costochondritis and small joint arthritis. Laboratory evaluations included normal blood counts and chemistry panels, elevated ESR during flares, negative rheumatoid factor, the absence of antinuclear antibodies or ANCA and the presence of CII antibodies. In addition, we previously identified CII-specific T cells in this patient []. Over the course of his disease, the patient had been treated with methotrexate for 7 years, etanercept for 9 months, mycophenolate mofetil for 1 year, leflunomide for 2 years, and minocycline for 1 year. Prednisone and etodolac were used as needed during flares, which occurred 2-3 times per year. At the time of death, his disease had been well-controlled on subcutaneous adalimumab for many years. Notably, records of pulmonary function testing and transthoracic ultrasound evaluation of the heart and great vessels which are performed in routinely in many RP patients were not available for review. RP has recently been classified into three clinical phenotypes: mild, hematologic, and respiratory []. Based on our patient's clinical history, his clinical phenotype would have been classified as mild compared to the more severe hematologic and respiratory subtypes. Aside from his RP, the patient was an active, healthy man without history of tobacco use or other cardiac risk factors.
An autopsy revealed that the heart was normal in size (490 grams) with a normal appearing aorta, left ventricle, epicardial surface, and valves. The coronary ostia, right circumflex, and left circumflex vessels were patent. The walls of the left main coronary artery and left anterior descending coronary artery