A 62-year-old woman was referred to our facility with a persistent dry cough lasting for 18 months. The patient had never smoked. When the dry cough developed, she saw her family physician and was prescribed dihydrocodeine. Her symptoms did not improve, and she took the following medications sequentially: clarithromycin, pranlukast, and one-month rabeprazole, all of which did not alleviate her cough. She was referred to an otolaryngologist, and it was determined that rhinitis or sinusitis was unlikely. Four months after the onset, she was referred to another hospital, and a pulmonologist performed laboratory examinations, spirometry, an alveolar nitric oxide concentration test, and computer tomography scan (CT scan) to rule out lung cancer; chronic infectious disease, including tuberculosis; and interstitial pneumonitis. These examinations revealed no particular abnormalities. The pulmonologist tried an inhaled corticosteroid and tiotropium bromide as test treatments. However, neither of them worked well. The patient was tentatively diagnosed with psychogenic cough. Her symptoms worsened, and she was referred to our hospital.
The patient had no previous contact with sick people or animals, and she had never traveled abroad. The symptoms did not show a diurnal variation and were not related to menstruation, body position, nor environmental factors. She reported no symptoms other than the cough. On physical examination, she was afebrile and appeared well with normal vital signs. Facial knock pain was absent. No ulceration was found in her oropharynx. There were no palpable cervical or supraclavicular lymph nodes. Cardiac examination showed no abnormalities, and her breath sound was clear with no rales. Her legs and feet were not swollen. There was no rash on her skin. No neurological abnormalities were shown. The laboratory examination did not reveal any particular findings. The repeated chest CT scan revealed ground-glass attenuation in the left lower lobe, which we think has no relation to her symptom (Figure ), and no other abnormalities were found.