A 25-year-old woman presented to the obstetric clinic during the 8th week of her first pregnancy. Family history was negative for relevant diseases. The patient denied smoke, alcohol, or substance use, trauma, or surgical interventions. She was accompanied by her mother who described an episode of intracranial hemorrhage after birth with no subsequent cognitive or developmental sequelae. She also reported access to the emergency department after generalized tonic-clonic seizure as an infant, but she was not able to describe neither antiepileptic therapy nor reasons that led to its interruption. However, she did not report clinically significant neurological consequences.
A head CT scan performed in 2015 showed a very rare case of a left fronto-opercular porencephalic cyst associated with a large left temporobasal arachnoid cyst (Galassi II), communicating through the Sylvian fissure. In 2017, the patient underwent a follow-up MRI that confirmed no changes in the lesion previously described. The patient continued to be asymptomatic, and she decided to get pregnant.
At the time of presentation to our clinic, the woman was in good health. Physical exam was normal. Extensive laboratory routine was performed without any alteration, and mutations for genetic thrombophilia and autoimmunity were not detected.
The patient had no neurological symptoms nor assumed any therapy. A neurologist reviewed the patient's MRI scan in which porencephalic and arachnoid cysts were evident (Figures –). The neurological examination was negative, and Mini Mental Test examination was normal. Electroencephalography did not show epileptiform or seizure-like activity. No antiepileptic drug was prescribed due to the absence of symptoms since many years. The neurosurgical consultation did not reveal any contraindications for the delivery through a caesarean section.
The medical team considered the woman and fetus at risk, she was monitored closely through pregnancy, and she was advised to report any relevant neurological symptoms. A peculiar aspect was counseling the patient for a possible recurrence risk of the porencephalic cyst and how to manage pregnancy, but family