The patient, a 26-year-old male non-smoker with a diagnosis of TAR syndrome, presented at the dental clinic for the treatment of dental fractures of teeth 21, 11, and 12 that resulted from trauma related to a car accident. Previous medical history was positive for TAR syndrome, with presence of thrombocytopenia at birth, phocomelia, and deformities of the upper and lower limbs. The patient reported recurrent episodes of thrombocytopenia and being in the care of a hematologist; he was also being treated for a fracture of the right femur as a result of the accident. No bleeding or blood transfusion had been reported. The patient did not report controlled drugs for continuous use, allergies, and adverse drug reactions. The evaluation by the medical clinic was carried out and the report did not show kidney dysfunction or other diseases that could prevent dental surgery. The patient agreed to sign an informed consent form, and the clinical case was conducted in a private practice according to the principles of the Declaration of Helsinki.
Clinical examination revealed abrasions, localized labial and gingival edema, and clinical crown fracture apparent without pulp involvement in teeth 11 (Fig. A,B). Pulp vitality testing was positive for both teeth. We observed a low smile line (Fig. A) and thick gingival biotype, with no change in probing depth and no loss of clinical insertion. A cone beam computed tomography examination showed bone fractures observed in the axial sections (Fig. C) and multiple root fractures observed in the sagittal sections (Fig. D). Restorative treatment with composite resin for teeth 12 and 21 was proposed to the patient (Fig. B). Furthermore, the treatment plans included the extraction of tooth 11 with bone grafting for the alveolar ridge preservation and buccal bone reconstitution. Following this, an osseointegrated dental implant was planned for a second treatment. The graft technique selected was an insertion of lyophilized bovine bone associated at resorbable collagen membrane (). During