A 64-year-old male patient with no previous history of trauma was admitted to the hospital for intermittent claudication of the right lower limb for more than 1 month. The patient did not have resting pain or numbness in the lower extremities, and the claudication distance was about 100 m. The clinical history of acute myocardial infarction was evidenced by percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) via the radial approach 6 months ago, and one stent was implanted. After the operation, the patient took aspirin and clopidogrel regularly. The patient had a history of smoking and drinking but did not have hypertension, diabetes, and family genetic disease. Physical examination revealed that the right common femoral pulse was palpated, but popliteal pulse and anterior tibial arteries were not palpable. The right ankle–brachial index (ABI) was 0.5. The preoperative Rutherford classification was level 3. Computed tomography angiography (CTA) revealed the absence of superficial femoral artery (SFA) (typeIIb PSA). The thrombus in the remote of PSA and near-end popliteal artery were also noted, and the distal arteries below the knee were not obstructed ().
There was no external compression on the vessel. In this way, two treatment plans could be taken into consideration. Plan A: Choose aspirin and clopidogrel antithrombotic therapy with regular review by ultrasonography or CTA until claudication becomes more serious and an operation would be undertaken. Plan B: Choose endovascular treatment or femoropopliteal bypass surgery. We informed the patient of the advantages and disadvantages of the two treatment plans. Open surgery is more invasive, but the effect of surgery is better after the establishment of the bypass vessel. Endovascular treatment is minimally invasive, but stent implantation may be required, and the long-term patency rate is slightly lower. The patient and their families decided to take endovascular repair.
The patient underwent percutaneous arteriography and catheter-directed thrombolysis (CDT) of the PSA using infusion catheter (Merit Medical, Utah, USA) and urokinase