This is a case of a 73-year-old Hispanic male with past medical history of hypertension, dyslipidemia, diabetes mellitus type 2, and former nicotine dependence. The patient presented to our ED brought in via Emergency Medical Services (EMS) as a ST elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI) alert. The patient was transferred to our emergency department (ED) from a nearby urgent care center, where he presented with complaints of chest pain. The patient stated that he woke up with midsternal chest pain, 3 hours prior to arrival. He described the chest pain as a pressure-like, non-radiating and constant, 7 out of 10 in severity initially on arrival to urgent care. He stated the pain was worsened by deep breathing and movement and that nothing alleviated it. He also endorsed feeling short of breath and having dyspnea on minimal exertion, for example, by walking a few steps. The patient denied palpitations, diaphoresis, nausea, vomiting, headache, dizziness, syncope, weakness, fever, chills, abdominal pain, or other complaints.
The patient stated that approximately 6 to 8 weeks prior, he was admitted in another hospital and was in critical condition due to COVID-19 infection complicated by pneumonia. The patient stated that he was discharged from the hospital less than 1 month ago and that he was feeling well after discharge until waking up this day with chest pain.
The initial vital signs were within normal limits except for heart rate fluctuating between 100 to 110 beats per minute. The patient reported the chest pain was still present, although it had slightly improved compared to the onset. The initial 12-lead electrocardiogram (ECG) in our ED is depicted below (figure ).
The interventional cardiologist was consulted and upon evaluation of the ECG and because the patient was still experiencing chest pain, the decision was made to take the patient immediately for an emergent diagnostic left heart catheterization and coronary angiography. This study showed non obstructive coronary artery disease; thus no interventions