A 47-year-old male with no smoking, drinking, or no history of previous malignancy was initially referred to the department of radiodiagnosis for characterization of a growing painless right parotid mass that had been present for 1 year with rapid progression within three months.
Six month before presenting to our institution, the patient had noticed a right neck mass for which MRI was done outside, which showed a well-circumscribed, heterogeneous mass with low signal intensity on T1W images and high intensity on T2W images, involving both superficial and deep lobe of the right parotid gland, closely abutting right internal carotid artery and right internal jugular vein and extending into the right para-pharyngeal space with no evidence of tumor thrombus noted at that time ().
Upon presentation at our institution, physical examination demonstrated significant enlargement in the mass’s size with no evidence of palpable veins, or tenderness in the neck. However, there was a history of rapid growth within 3 months. With these clinical findings, the patient underwent a CT scan, which demonstrated a fairly large (6.2×4.4 cm) heterogeneously enhancing mass lesion with internal necrotic changes arising from the right parotid gland and involving both superficial and deep lobe with perilesional fat stranding.
On further evaluation, mass is seen to extend into the right internal jugular vein, which appears expanded and showed enhancing intraluminal filling defect on post-contrast images suggestive of tumor thrombus into the vessel (). The tumor thrombus extends further down into the right atrium. Based on the imaging findings, the possibility of the malignant lesion was suggested.
Subsequently, histopathological analysis revealed a tumor composed of sheets of round to spindle-shaped cells with large areas of necrosis with cells showing vesicular nuclear chromatin, prominent nucleoli, ill-defined cytoplasm, and brisk mitotic figures. On immunohistochemistry, cells were positive for vimentin, suggestive of a malignant mesenchymal tumor. The final histopathology report was suggestive of monomorphic synovial sarcoma ().
Due to the