64-year-old male with a previous medical history of prior tobacco use, gastroesophageal reflux disease and hypertension presented to the emergency department with recurrent and worsening epigastric abdominal pain for 1 month. The pain was associated with episodic bilious vomiting and which also contained food particles. The patient’s history was negative for recent unintended weight loss, hematemesis, melena or known malignancies. Laboratory findings revealed an elevated lipase level of 1300 U/L and leukocytosis of 18.0×109/L. Based on these initial parameters, the clinical suspicion was acute pancreatitis, although there was no family history of pancreatitis and no personal history of alcohol abuse. The patient subsequently underwent a contrast-enhanced CT scan of the abdomen and pelvis using a dedicated pancreas protocol which included soft tissue and bone algorithms as well as reformatted/MPR images. The total amount of intravenous contrast administered was 95 ml omnipaque 350. Oral contrast was not administered. The CT demonstrated marked dilatation of both the stomach and duodenum with an abrupt transition point corresponding to the location of the third portion of duodenum secondary to mass effect by a large AAA (). Additional findings included diffuse atherosclerotic calcifications of the aorta with aneurysmal dilation measuring 9 cm in transverse and 11 cm craniocaudal dimensions. There was no CT evidence of extravasation of contrast or other signs of impending aneurysmal rupture. The ER clinician consulted both vascular and gastrointestinal surgery. Due to the elevated lipase levels and the acute bowel obstruction, vascular surgery was not a viable management option at the time of presentation. The benefits and risks of open aortic surgery versus endovascular repair (EVAR) were discussed in detail and, following nasogastric tube decompression, the patient underwent EVAR of the AAA as the preferred treatment option.
The patient was discharged home after successful EVAR. Despite this, however, symptoms of epigastric pain and vomiting were not relieved. Within the month, the patient presented two more times to the emergency department with clinical features of persistent duodenal obstruction