A 70-year-old female with history of hypertension presented to the emergency department with complaints of intermittent difficulty swallowing liquids, especially when ingesting a large bolus. She had no further relevant past medical history and denied smoking and alcohol use. Her symptoms had started 1 year prior to presentation and occurred once a month. She endorsed history of intermittent dysphagia symptoms while attempting to swallow liquids and rice, as well as a mild loss of appetite. She denied odynophagia, globus sensation, weight loss, abdominal pain, hematochezia, and dyspepsia. Physical exam was unremarkable. Initial clinical differential diagnosis of intermittent dysphagia with solids/liquids would seem most consistent with a motility disorder. Neck radiographs were ordered to rule out foreign body. Double contrast barium esophography, as well as endoscopy, were ordered to evaluate for a possible motility disorder or esophageal compression that could be causing the dysphagia.
Neck radiographs showed multilevel moderate anterior cervical spine osteophytes without displacement of the anterior prevertebral soft tissues. No radiopaque foreign body was seen (). Double contrast barium esophagography revealed anterior compression on the lower esophageal lumen with smooth margins and well-defined angles that remained during barium ingestion (). No strictures or mucosal defects were seen elsewhere. This appearance was suggestive of submucosal mass extending into the lumen. Additionally, decreased primary peristalsis was noted within the esophagus.
Endoscopy revealed a non-obstructive Schatzki ring 2 cm proximal to the gastroesophageal junction. The exact measurements of the distal esophageal diameter were not obtained during endoscopy. However, since the endoscope passed into the stomach without difficulty, this indicates that the luminal size was greater than 12 mm, which is the diameter of the endoscope. The Schatzki ring seen endoscopically () demonstrated minimal narrowing of the esophageal lumen and was not apparent on the esophagography. A chest CT scan was ordered for further evaluation of the esophageal compression.
Axial CT with intravenous contrast demonstrated a common venous trunk