The patient is a 63-year-old Hispanic woman with a history of peptic ulcer disease with dyspepsia and was treated with a proton pump inhibitor (PPI). She was diagnosed with Helicobacter pylori infection and received a triple drug therapy. Subsequently she experienced weight loss of approximately 14 kg over 2 months (BMI = 18.4; previous weight 64 kg, BMI = 23.5), and her dyspepsia did not improve. Colonoscopy and esophagogastroduodenoscopy (EGD) were performed and revealed a 4 cm pyloric ulcer and 70% pyloric stenosis; biopsies were taken at the time of the EGD. The biopsy demonstrated adenocarcinoma in signet ring cells. She was referred to the General Ignacio Zaragoza Regional Hospital Surgery Department for further evaluation. Social history was significant for an 18-pack-year smoking history. Her family history was significant for first-degree relatives with a history of cancer: one with bladder carcinoma and the other with prostate carcinoma. Her physical examination was within normal limits. Laboratory tests demonstrated normal hemoglobin and hematocrit levels, normal liver enzymes, and normal renal function; however, urinalysis was significant for both proteinuria and hematuria, and her blood type is A positive. Carbohydrate antigen (CA)125 and CA19-9 were normal. Her chest X-ray was normal for her age. A computed tomography (CT) scan of her abdomen and pelvis showed a tumor in her left kidney of approximately 140 × 97 × 85 mm with homogeneous enhancement in its upper pole. No distant metastases were evident. Surgical intervention with an exploratory laparotomy was undertaken, where a partial gastrectomy was performed with gastrojejunal anastomosis with omega of Braun reconstruction and left radical nephrectomy. Interoperative cryosections were evaluated by pathology. She had an estimated blood loss of 850 cc, with an estimated surgical time of 210 minutes. The postsurgical course was without complications. The histopathological report describes the left kidney with a size of 100 x 80 mm with a tumor