We present a case of a 62-year-old Caucasian man with several neurovascular and psychiatric conditions. The patient was first injured in 1980 in a construction worksite accident, wherein he was struck by a falling cinder block and experienced significant cranial trauma that required a right frontotemporal craniotomy and partial brain resection. The resected bone was then replaced with artificial titanium plating. Following this surgery, the patient remained comatose for a period of 6 days, finally awakening on Christmas Day 1980. Follow-up magnetic resonance imaging and computed tomography confirmed the presence of a large, right-sided cystic encephalomalacia with subsequent gliosis subjacent to the resected brain tissue. Following this initial injury, the patient surprisingly made a full recovery, with no permanent neurological deficits. However, he began to experience painful and intractable headaches. Despite the best efforts of his physicians, these headaches soon became debilitating and made it difficult for the patient to hold a steady job. For the next 30 years, he struggled with his injury, eventually becoming homeless. During one visit to the hospital, he was diagnosed with major depressive disorder and subsequently was started on amitriptyline, which the patient has taken ever since. For most of this period, however, the patient had little or no regular healthcare, and his health slowly deteriorated.
In 2013, the patient, a lifetime smoker, experienced a thromboembolic left pontine infarction. He again recovered, and, interestingly, this event caused a dramatic reduction in the frequency and intensity of the patient’s headaches. However, this time, the patient retained a unilateral right-sided oculomotor nerve palsy and significant speech deficits for years afterward. Several days after this stroke, the patient began to experience episodes of inappropriate laughing and crying and general emotional incontinence. At this time, he was diagnosed with PBA. In addition to his amitriptyline, initial attempts at treatment with several commonly prescribed antidepressants had no effect on the patient’s PBA symptoms