A 41-year-old female with significant past medical history of cannabis use, tobacco use, bipolar disorder, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, hypertension, and reflux esophagitis, but no alcohol use, presented to the emergency department for evaluation of recurrent excruciating epigastric pain accompanied by severe nausea and vomiting. Previously, she has had a similar but milder symptom for which she was evaluated. Previous esophagogastroduodenoscopy revealed no evidence of Barrett's esophagus or sprue; however, reflux esophagitis was detected for which she was started on a proton pump inhibitor.
The patient had been relatively symptom-free over the course of the two years until recently when she started experiencing severe epigastric pain with retching and nausea. She was then given pantoprazole and was discharged to follow up as an outpatient. The patient returned to the emergency department a few days later with similar epigastric pain with nausea and vomiting. Electrocardiogram (EKG) was without any significant ST or T wave changes ruling out acute coronary artery syndrome. CT scan abdomen and pelvis was performed and was negative for any acute pathology. The patient was treated with pantoprazole and pain medications and was later discharged after stabilization. The next day, the patient returned to the emergency department complaining of severe crampy abdominal pain with severe nausea and intermittent vomiting. The patient described her pain as being more severe with a rating of 10/10, twisting in nature, and some sensations of “butterflies” going up in the chest. Her pain was worse with eating, and she had been unable to tolerate any solid or liquid diet. She reported no relief with pantoprazole. Her review of systems was negative for heart burn or reflux-type symptoms, diarrhea, melena, or hematochezia. She also denied headache or history of migraine.
A detailed abdominal examination was also done which was negative for guarding or rebound tenderness. The patient, however, had moderate tenderness to palpation