This case report describes a 54-year-old male who underwent a laparoscopic sleeve resection procedure for morbid obesity. Prior to the procedure, the patient had a weight of 115.9 kilograms and a body mass index (BMI) of 49.77 and had failed both diet and medical weight management. His other medical history included hypertension, dyslipidemia, and sigmoid diverticulosis. His surgical history comprised of a laparoscopic cholecystectomy and an open reduction internal fixation of fracture on his ankle. He has a family history of diabetes mellitus type 2 in both parents. The patient admitted to drinking alcohol weekly but denied tobacco and recreational drug use. Physical examination did not reveal lymphadenopathy or hepatosplenomegaly. Preoperative evaluation of the peripheral blood was within normal limits with no evidence of a hematological malignancy or lymphoproliferative process. In addition, the patient did not have any positive findings on review of systems or any symptoms. Preoperative gastroduodenoscopy did not reveal any lesions; however, two antral biopsies were taken which revealed mild chronic inactive gastritis. A “sleeve gastrectomy specimen” was received in the pathology department. On gross examination, the gastric mucosa was described as tan-pink, smooth, and glistening with a focal area of hemorrhage (). There were no masses, no nodularities, no ulceration, or abnormal rugal folds. Representative sections of the hemorrhagic region were taken, along with several routine random areas of normal-appearing mucosa. Other than the focal area of hemorrhage, there was little evidence to indicate an underlying pathological process or malignancy, as small hemorrhagic areas are common findings in surgical specimens. On histological examination, sections taken from the hemorrhagic areas showed a diffuse atypical lymphoid infiltrate extending into the lamina propria and submucosa, with nodular pattern and focal germinal centers (). Proliferation of plasma cells was also evident. In addition, there was an associated architectural distortion with gastric glandular atrophy (). Immunohistochemical stains with the appropriate controls were obtained revealing diffuse sheets of lymphoma cells that were positive for