In June 2016, a 17-year-old boy came to our attention after being referred to us following a motorcycle accident. Informed consent from the patients was obtained. He immediately appeared non-compliant with healthcare workers. The first clinical evaluation revealed important and generalised pain of the right leg as well as functional impotence, tibial fracture with medial exposure of degree IIIB of about 10 cm of extension at the level of the distal middle third of the right tibia, contamination of the same outbreak with material that probably originated from the road surface, and various lacerated contusion wounds spread around the exposure ().
The patient showed no apparent deep vascular-nervous deficits and reported being a habitual smoker. After appropriate evaluation by the general emergency room surgeon in order to rule out abdominal and/or cranial lesions, the patient was sent to radiology to perform anteroposterior and lateral radiographs, which showed a complex multi-segmented displaced tibia fracture (type 42-C3) with an attached disrupted fracture of peroneal malleolus, type 44-B2 ().
The patient was surgically treated with a reduction and stabilization with external fixation. The patient was placed in the supine position, and the exposure was debrided to remove the contaminating residues. Various bruised wounds and bruises were thoroughly cleaned. The fracture was reduced by mounting an external fixation implant in a hybrid configuration with a tibial socket of three proximal Schanz screws and three distal 2 mm transverse wires anchored to a semicircular frame ().
One month later, the patient underwent a clinical and radiographic follow-up evaluation, which showed an implant with good grip and a reduction of the fracture abutments. The patient underwent new clinical and radiographic checks two months and three months after his surgery (). The multi-fragmentation of the fracture still showed no stable consolidation during these controls, with poor presence of bone callus; conversion to intra-medullary nailing had been planned at