A 39-year-old female with a history of obesity and tobacco use presented to the emergency department with a 10-day history of increased swelling, redness, drainage, and pain of the right breast and upper abdomen. The patient reported associated fever, chills, nausea, and emesis. There was no history of trauma or previous surgery. She also stated she was reluctant to visit her primary care physician or any emergency department when her symptoms began due to anxiety related to COVID-19 viral exposure.
On clinical examination, the right breast was noted to have a 12 × 14 cm area of skin sloughing along the inferior inner aspect of the breast. A necrotic open wound was also seen within the lower outer quadrant with foul-smelling drainage surrounded by edema, erythema, and crepitus extending onto the right anterior abdominal wall (Figures and ) The patient was noted to be hypotensive with mild tachycardia.
Pertinent laboratory findings revealed a leukocytosis of 16.9 × 109/L with neutrophilia, thrombocytosis of 608 × 109/L, and mild hyponatremia of 133 meq/L. Mild anemia was present, but renal function and lactic acid were found to be within normal limits.
A chest computer tomography (CT) ordered by the emergency room physician revealed the right breast wound with several locules of gas within the superficial subcutaneous tissues of the right lateral and posterior breast with minimally increased attenuation of the subcutaneous tissues. (Figures –) These findings were consistent with a necrotizing soft tissue infection, and general surgery was consulted. After surgical evaluation, a decision was made to proceed with emergent surgical intervention to provide source control. Prior to surgery, resuscitative intravenous fluids were administered in addition to vancomycin, clindamycin, and aztreonam, due to an unknown reported allergy to cephalexin.
The patient was taken to the operating room for an emergent wide excision and debridement of the infected tissue within the inferior right breast