A Caucasian male in his early 60s presented to the McLaren Macomb Emergency Department (ED) with a complaint of bilateral hip pain and inability to ambulate. The pain had been present for the past four-to-five days and was progressive in nature. The patient admitted to being fairly active and normally able to ambulate without the assistance of a cane or walker up until symptoms began. He described his pain as 10 out of 10 constant pain in the anterior bilateral hip joints with mild radiation into his lumbar back and groin, with no radiation into his legs. His pain increased with ambulation but improved with rest. He attempted to take three doses of aspirin at home without any relief in his symptoms and began using a walker to help him ambulate.
The patient had an extensive medical history. This history included sigmoid diverticulitis with sigmoid colectomy in 2012, deep vein thrombosis, duodenal ulcer, benign prostatic hypertrophy and hypertension. He also suffered from chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, chronic thrombocytopenia, peripheral vascular disease, atherosclerotic coronary artery disease and paroxysmal atrial fibrillation. He had been diagnosed with end stage renal disease and was on hemodialysis. He subsequently had multiple hemodialysis catheter infections with bacteremia (MRSA), obstructive uropathy with chronic hydronephrosis, and several peritoneal and pelvic abdominal abscesses. He denied having noticed any recent changes in his ostomy output.
The patient’s past surgical history included inferior vena cava filter placement, cholecystectomy, sigmoid colectomy with end colostomy, numerous cystoscopies, bilateral ureteral stents, peroneal abscess incision and drainage, esophagogastroduodenoscopy, colonoscopy, several IR drainages of pelvic abscesses, exploratory laparotomy with enterolysis, temporary catheter placement, and numerous arteriovenous fistula creations.
The patient took amiodarone, Prilosec, Imdur, and aspirin. He had no allergies to any medications. He denied use of nicotine, alcohol or any illicit drugs. He lived with and took care of his elderly mother. His father had died from a cerebral