A 36-year-old male patient came to the Department of Maxillofacial Surgery, University Hospital Clinic Zagreb in December 2010 due to a swelling of the left body of the mandible that was noticed 4 months earlier. The patient did not report any other symptoms. After examination, the patient was referred to a maxillofacial surgeon regarding an atypical clinical and radiological finding in the form of a multicystic appearance (bubble-like) in the corpus of the left mandible and pathological teeth mobility in the region of the swelling. There were no enlarged lymph nodes in the neck and head area. Differential diagnosis included keratocystic odontogenic tumor, ameloblastoma, central giant cell granuloma, and odontogenic myxoma.
The patient denied any systemic disease or condition and reported no previous surgeries. A general physical examination was unremarkable. The patient did not have any deleterious habits such as alcohol consumption or smoking and without previous history of swelling or trauma of the mandible. On extraoral examination, the patient displayed some facial asymmetry with an obvious firm and diffuse swelling on the left side of the mandible. The overlying skin was normal in appearance. Intraorally, there was a diffuse swelling in the buccal vestibule. Teeth in the third quadrant were without any pain sensation but with pathological mobility. Lower incisors and canine had mobility grade I and premolars and first molar grade II according to the Miller classification.
The orthopantomogram (OPG) showed a multilocular radiolucency, with fine trabeculation, extending from the left canine, towards the first molar () with no root resorption. A CT scan was made afterwards and revealed the destruction of the buccal cortex of the left body of the mandible. A probatory biopsy was performed under local infiltration anesthesia (4% articaine with epinephrine 1 : 200 000; 1.8 mL), and the specimen was sent for histopathologic examination which reported odontogenic myxoma.
In accordance with the ethical protocol of the School of Dental Medicine, University of