A 76-year-old male with a past medical history of hypertension, hypercholesterolemia, hypothyroidism, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, diabetes mellitus type two, obstructive sleep apnea, benign prostatic hyperplasia, cerebral vascular accident with residual right-sided weakness, and dextrocardia with situs inversus presented with an abnormal nuclear stress test. Additionally, he had a family history notable for colon cancer and myocardial infarction in his mother and a thrombotic event in his father. He had no history of significant alcohol use, tobacco use, or illicit drug use, and his past surgical interventions were not cardiovascular in nature. He originally presented at an outside hospital following a syncopal event with a 45-second loss of consciousness postmicturition. At the time, he was thought to have orthostatic hypotension, and his tamsulosin was discontinued. He also underwent a nuclear stress test for the syncopal event due to additional complaints of worsening dyspnea on exertion. Nuclear stress testing demonstrated a moderate-sized reversible anterior wall myocardial perfusion defect and a moderate-sized reversible inferolateral wall myocardial perfusion defect. He was transferred to our hospital for further evaluation of symptoms and possible left heart catheterization. Cardiac catheterization revealed the already diagnosed dextrocardia along with a new diagnosis of severe ostial left anterior descending (LAD), mid-LAD, and ostial diagonal coronary artery disease. Transthoracic echocardiography (TTE) showed trace mitral valve regurgitation, mild aortic valve regurgitation, and an ejection fraction of 60%. His underlying dextrocardia with situs inversus caused diagnostic challenge with these tests as his angiographic, radiologic, and echocardiographic images were mirror images of normal cardiac anatomy. Aggressive risk factor modification was initiated, and a consult was placed to cardiothoracic surgery for evaluation for potential coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG). He underwent three-vessel CABG on day 7 of his hospitalization with alterations in management to account for his known dextrocardia with situs inversus. The electrocardiography leads and defibrillator pads were placed in reverse orientation