A 67-year-old woman presented with half a year history of dizziness. The dizziness worsened over the last 6 months, and the dizziness could be initiated by moving backward the neck. At the beginning of the disease onset, She had no other presentations, including vomiting, cognitive impairment, unconsciousness, and dysphagia. 6 months before admission, she was hospitalized at a local community hospital, and then, she was scanned with routine brain CT and neck MRI. The neck and brain imagings showed the disk herniation of the C1-C2, C3-C4, and some lacunar infarction in the bilateral basal ganglion, respectively. The local community hospital gave her routine anti-platelet and antihyperlipidemic medications for the lacunar infarction.
After 4 weeks of treatment, the dizziness symptom did not improve, and the patient was then referred to the department of neurology of the Shanghai Sixth people's hospital for further neurological consultation. She complained the dizziness worsened over the last 2 months and weakness of her right lower limb. An additional brain MRI enhancement scan and brain CT angiography scan were performed. The MRI scan indicated that there was an increased signal intensity of the bilateral frontal-temporal-parietal cortex on the diffusion-weighted imaging(DWI) sequence and brain atrophy (Figure ). In contrast, there was a decreased signal intensity of the counterpart cortex on the apparent diffusion coefficient (ADC) sequence. Brain CT angiography showed normal. At that time, the doctor of the radiology department considered it as acute brain infarction. There were no abnormalities on her full blood test, renal, liver, thyroid function, erythrocyte sedimentation rate, and antinuclear antibody panel. The electrolyte examination showed that her blood potassium was 3.1 mmol/L (reference range 3.5-5.5). The previous history revealed that she had half a year of diabetes, and she regularly took metformin to treat diabetes. She did not have a history of smoking and any other drug or alcohol overuse. She also