A 27-year-old man presented to the emergency department with nausea and vomiting for a few days. The vomiting was non-projectile, non-bilious, and contained ingested food materials. The patient had no concomitant diarrhea and denied any constitutional symptoms.
The patient described experiencing similar episodes of vomiting over the last seven years. He reported that the typical episode started upon waking up in the morning with no preceding stressors and was associated with intense abdominal pain, lethargy, and nausea. Then, the abdominal pain would be followed by multiple episodes of vomiting up to 10 times within a few hours. Every episode might last for five to six days and would reoccur every two to three months. The patient was doing well between episodes and was able to resume his job as military personnel.
He had experienced many emergency presentations and multiple admissions and had been treated symptomatically throughout without reaching a conclusive diagnosis. His past medical history was unremarkable apart from a laparoscopic appendectomy performed seven years back.
The patient had achieved his developmental milestones at normal ages and had grown up in a middle-class family consisting of his parents, brothers, and sisters. He denied a previous diagnosis of any psychiatric disorders such as post-traumatic stress disorder. His siblings were healthy, except for his younger sister, who was known to have an intellectual disability. He was married and had a one-year-old child; he worked as a civil officer in the armed forces and denied alcohol consumption, smoking, or drug abuse. Clinical examination revealed normal vital signs, delayed capillary refill, and dry mucus membrane. The abdomen was soft, with mild epigastric tenderness. Other systemic examinations were unremarkable.
The patient was investigated thoroughly and evaluated for possible gastroenterological, immunological, neurological, metabolic, and psychiatric disorders. Biochemical investigations were normal, except for lactic acidosis, ketonuria, and proteinuria attributed to the normal physiological response to vomiting. Also