An 82-year-old-female with a history of heavy smoking, never formally diagnosed with chronic obstructive lung disease, was referred to the outpatient pulmonary clinic for cough productive of dark yellow phlegm, wheezing, and shortness of breath that was most notable with exertion. She had a chest x-ray prior to presentation showing the presence of a right upper lobe opacity (Figure ).
She also had computed tomography (CT) of the chest ordered by her primary care physician. The CT of the chest revealed a mass-like enlargement of the right upper lobe bronchi suggestive of ABPA (Figure ).
On physical examination, she was tachypneic and had diffuse expiratory wheezing. Her room air oxygen saturation was 90%. A battery of tests was ordered including complete blood count (CBC) with differential, Immunoglobulin E level (IgE), and pulmonary function tests. She was immediately started on maintenance inhalers, antibiotics, as well as systemic steroids given the gravity of her symptoms. Within a week she reported dramatic improvement in her cough, wheezing, and dyspnea. The CBC and IgE levels were within normal limits, albeit this was on systemic corticosteroids, which could have been a confounding factor. The working diagnosis at that time was ABPA. At that point, the patient was kept on a slow steroid taper, and maintenance inhalers, with plans to repeat the chest CT in a month. Clinically she was doing better. She presented a month later with improving symptoms, but her repeat CT imaging of the chest showed the persistence of the mass-like right upper lobe airway enlargement, again described as a fingers-in-glove pattern suggestive of ABPA with no evidence of enlarged mediastinal adenopathy and no contralateral lung involvement. Concerned that the opacity persisted with no reduction in size, the patient was scheduled for a bronchoscopy with possible biopsy. The procedure was done under conscious sedation and revealed the presence of a friable mass occluding the opening of the right