A 68-year-old, right-handed male presented with episodes of nausea and vomiting over the last year. These episodes could be precipitated by sudden head movement, physical exertion, or sometimes in response to changes in ambient temperature. The severity and frequency of the episodes gradually progressed. Mild gait instability was also noted. His only other medical history included hypothyroidism and dyslipidemia. There was no family history of cerebral aneurysms. There was no history of smoking or excess alcohol consumption. On examination, he had difficulty performing tandem gait but had no other neurologic deficits. No other cerebellar signs were noted.
An MRI of the brain, arranged by his family physician, demonstrated a partially thrombosed giant right PICA aneurysm filling the fourth ventricle (). The filling (non-thrombosed) component of the aneurysm measured 5 × 8 mm with a 2 mm neck. Mass effect was noted on bilateral dentate nuclei and cerebellar white matter as well as the pons. No AVM was detected on the MRI. There was no evidence of obstructive hydrocephalus. Conventional cerebral angiogram demonstrated that this aneurysm was arising from the right PICA on a segment distal to the caudal loop. It also showed a midline cerebellar AVM, with a nidus <3 cm, supplied by the right PICA. Another two smaller prenidal aneurysms were also noted more distally along the right PICA. In addition, the AVM is also supplied by the ipsilateral superior cerebellar artery (SCA) and drains superficially into the right transverse sinus through the torcula, Spetzler-Martin grade 1 (). The Right vertebral artery was dominant in this case, and each PICA arises from the V4 segment of the respective ipsilateral vertebral artery.
After a detailed discussion with the patient and a review of both endovascular and open microsurgical options, the patient underwent endovascular treatment of the giant aneurysm with coil embolization/parent vessel occlusion (treatment decision and rationale are discussed below). Though all approaches, including endovascular and microsurgical interventions, have