The patient is a 50-year-old Caucasian female with a past medical history of HLA B27-positive juvenile rheumatoid arthritis (JRA) presenting for the second revision of her left total hip arthroplasty secondary to pain and polyethylene wear. As a result of her JRA treatment, she had steroid-induced osteonecrosis of both hips, which had required bilateral hip replacements many years prior to presentation. She had undergone left total hip revision some 20 years prior at another institution. She was a former smoker and weighed 68 kg with a body mass index (BMI) of 25. Preoperatively, she denied any numbness, weakness, or any other neurologic findings in any of her extremities. She underwent preoperative placement of a left posterior quadratus lumborum block (QLB) using 30 cc of 0.5% ropivacaine with 2 mg of dexamethasone added with general endotracheal anesthesia for her surgery. As a result of her body habitus, ultrasound imaging proceeded without ambiguity, and the local anesthetic was injected into the fascial plane along the posterior border of the quadratus lumborum. On her first postoperative day, the patient complained of pain and dysesthesias in the left knee; she had 0/5 strength in left hip flexion and knee extension with substantially decreased sensation to her distal anterior/anteromedial thigh and knee. Initial evaluation by physical therapy documented 0/5 quadriceps strength. For her protection, she was placed in a knee immobilizer. She continued to have numbness over her anterior knee. At her first postoperative visit on day 15, the operative extremity that previously had been shorter than the contralateral was found to now be ¾” longer than the contralateral, and she was given an orthotic to level her pelvis.
She underwent nerve conduction studies as well as electromyography seven weeks after surgery; the physical exam of the operative extremity performed by the neurologist at that time demonstrated 2/5 strength in her hip flexors, 1/5 knee extension, 4+/5 ankle dors