A 42-year-old Iranian healthy male farmer and smoker was admitted to the Department of Pulmonary and Critical Care at Kowsar Hospital in Shiraz, Fars Province (Southern Iran). The patient had a history of contact with domestic animals while living in the village. He did not have any past significant medical history to suggest immunosuppression. His physical examination showed normality with vital signs as a pulse rate of 98 beats per minute, respiratory rate of 28 breaths per minute, oxygen saturation of 98%, and blood pressure of 110/80 mmHg. Full laboratory blood analysis revealed a hemoglobin level of 12.8 g/dl, and there was no evidence of eosinophilia on peripheral blood examination. Serum electrolytes and liver function test results were within the normal ranges. He was nonreactive for HBs and HIV antigens.
The chest CT scan showed a restricted cystic lesion in the superior and inferior segment of the lower lobe of right and left lungs measuring about 27 mm and 22 mm, respectively (Figures and ).
Ultrasound abdomen did not show any cysts in the liver or any other organs. Radical surgery (lobectomy) was performed, and the excised cysts were sent for histopathological examination. Gross examination of the sample showed a well-defined multilayered creamy-white cyst measuring 2.5 × 2 × 2 cm. Surprisingly, the ectocyst in the right lung showed the presence of numerous clusters of Aspergillus septate hyphae with acute-angled branching in hematoxylin and eosin stain (H&E) (Figures and ). This finding was further confirmed by the periodic acid-Schiff (PAS) staining of the tissue section. Therefore, the diagnosis of dual infection by Echinococcus and Aspergillus was established. Moreover, the surrounding lung parenchyma around the cyst in the right lung showed acute and chronic inflammation and giant cell formation. Parietal pleura partial resection showed mild chronic inflammation. As the patient was immunocompetent, the postoperative course was uneventful and there was no dissemination of fungal or