An 80-year-old Japanese man was admitted to our hospital with a 6 hours history of lower anterior chest pain that had not been alleviated by sublingual nitroglycerin, dyspnea, and generalized perspiration. A few days previously, he had begun to experience a tight feeling in his lower anterior chest, which lessened with nitroglycerin administration. Over the years, he had been treated for aortic regurgitation, chronic heart failure, vasospastic angina, hypertension, hypercholesterolemia, and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease at an outpatient clinic established by his family physician. His past history included mitral valvuloplasty 12 years previously for mitral stenosis and regurgitation. He had smoked 50 cigarettes per day for 50 years until 12 years ago, and he was allergic to radiocontrast agents. On arrival at the hospital, he was alert and did not complain of abdominal pain. His body temperature was 36.0°C, blood pressure 135/76 mmHg, pulse rate 80 beats/min, respiration rate 26 breaths/min, and percutaneous oxygen saturation 96% while breathing room air. Physical examination revealed an apical systolic murmur, without tenderness or a skin rash at the site of the chest pain, and there was no leg edema. His abdomen was soft and flat, with the left lower portion tender without guarding.
Laboratory examination results are shown in Table . The blood cultures performed on his arrival were negative. The electrocardiogram showed normal sinus rhythm and ventricular premature contractions without relevant findings indicating cardiac ischemia, myocarditis, or pericarditis, such as changes in ST-T segments in comparison with his previous records (Figure ). Anteroposterior chest radiography revealed mild heart enlargement and slightly increased pulmonary vascular markings (Figure ). Transthoracic echocardiography showed moderate mitral regurgitation without left ventricular asynergy. Although the right ventricular systolic pressure was as high as 51 mmHg, it was lower than that examined previously.
Because of the presence of multiple risk factors for cardiovascular disease, serious and potentially fatal causes of chest pain—that is,