An 80-year-old healthy male patient with no history of tobacco or alcohol use presented to an otolaryngologist for throat pain, fever, right otalgia, and right maxillary sinus tenderness. He had previously been identified with a pathogenic germline BRCA2 variant during successful management of intraductal breast carcinoma, pancreatic adenocarcinoma, and prostatic adenocarcinoma over 10 years prior. He otherwise had a maternal history of breast cancer during the 8th and 9th decade and two healthy adult children with germline BRCA2 variant mutations. At the initial otolaryngology visit, physical examination was normal, and he was empirically treated for bacterial sinusitis.
On follow-up, the patient had improvement of initial symptoms but had developed a nonproductive cough. His examination at that time was remarkable for a small pharyngeal ulcer, and antigastroesophageal reflux therapy was started. Subsequently, the patient underwent CT larynx without contrast by his Oncologist for additional workup of fatigue in the context of ongoing otalgia, sinus tenderness, and cough. This imaging revealed an asymmetric soft tissue prominence at the larynx with thickening along the adjacent right hypopharynx, a 1.3 cm lymph node and fat stranding at the right carotid space. Laryngopharyngitis was diagnosed based on repeat examination and review of imaging. A primary care physician then obtained a noncontrast MRI for new headaches incidentally identifying a transglottic mass invading thyroid cartilage with encasement of the right carotid, and a 1.6 cm right level IIA lymph node (Figure ). The patient was referred to our tertiary care center for concern of hypopharyngeal malignancy.
Evaluation with flexible fiberoptic laryngoscopy revealed a mass at the right pharyngeal wall extending to the right pyriform sinus (Figure ). Ultrasound-guided needle biopsy was attempted twice revealing acute inflammation and keratinized squamous cell epithelium of the right piriform sinus, respectively. Biopsy of the right level II lymph node showed chronic lymphocytic leukemia. A biopsy of the right piriform sinus under general anesthesia was then completed revealing well-differentiated