A 50-year-old Caucasian male with autism presented with 1week of abdominal pain and vomiting progressing to obstipation. The patient’s limited communication skills led to a delayed diagnosis of a complete bowel obstruction. The patient underwent exploratory laparotomy which revealed extremely dilated loops of small bowel secondary to cecal volvulus, leading to a right hemicolectomy. He was discharged with instruction to return to the wound clinic for midline abdominal wound care. On return to the wound clinic, the patient’s abdominal wound was found to have dehiscence with bowel evisceration. This complication arose as the patient had difficulty understanding postoperative instruction to refrain from using his abdominal muscles. The subsequent OR trip consisted of component separation along with mesh implantation to allow for decreased tension on the wound hoping for complete closure and healing. A full timeline of his hospital course is referenced in .
The patient was a 50-year-old intellectually disabled male who arrived at the hospital as a transfer from an outside facility for a diagnosed small bowel obstruction. Prior to his transfer, the patient had nonoperative management of suspected partial bowel obstruction with gastric decompression, analgesia, nausea control and bowel rest. This yielded a resolution of his symptoms for 1 day, but the patient faced a rapid return of his symptoms, after which he was transferred to a higher level of care for operative management. While his disability significantly limited his communication with those involved, he was able to relay the presence of periumbilical abdominal pain with failure to pass flatus or stool.
The patient was autistic and legally blind. His past medical history consists of gout and hypertension. Past surgical history was significant for fracture repair of the right upper and lower extremities leading to gross deformity and negative for any abdominal surgeries. Family history consisted of hypertension and diabetes mellitus. The patient denied alcohol, tobacco, or illicit drug use. He was taking Thorazine, Lopressor and Allopurinol and had no known drug allergies