A 57 years old man affected by Advanced Parkinson’s Disease was selected for J-PEG placement to allow the continuous administration of LCIG in duodenum (AbbVie PEG polyurethane Tube 20 F). We obtained informed consent. He had a smoking history of 30/40 cigarettes per day for the past 30 years reporting a chronic cough, prevalently but not solely in the morning. On examination he appeared overweight (BMI = 29) with an abdominal fat distribution. Lung clinical examination revealed a barrel chest decreased brief sounds, with moderate inspiratory and expiratory wheezing, he used accessory muscles of respiration. There were signs and symptoms of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD); spirometry showed a ratio of forced expiratory volume in 1s (FEV1) and forced vital capacity (FVC) slightly lower than normal (65%); and low maximum expiratory flow (MEF was 80% at 25% and 50%). There were no absolute contraindication to place PEG tube. A pull-technique was used and a routine post insertion endoscopic confirmation of satisfactory PEG placement (AbbVie PEG polyurethane Tube 20 F) was performed at the end of the procedure. The PEG appeared successfully placed. Thirteen days later the tube was unable to infuse solution, there was a peritubal leak and the patient had abdominal pain with signs of edema and erythema of the tube insertion area. On the clinical examination we observed that during cough attack abdomen of our patient become prominent. Endoscopic evaluation showed that gastric mucosa covering internal gastrostomy site resulted in a complete closure of the orifice with visualization of only the J-tube extension. The internal bumper was not visible on the gastric wall but mucosa was ulcerated at the presumed site (Fig. ). The patient underwent computed tomography (CT) (Fig. ) of the abdomen, BBS was recognized and the device was removed by using a needle-knife assisted endoscopic dissection technique. After one week, following a thorough multidisciplinary evaluation due to the patient’