Our work is a single case report and has been reported in line with the SCARE criteria [].
A 50-year-old man complained of a painless slow swelling in the left cheek, which had increased in size in the last four months, tobacco smoking, and alcohol intake for 15 years, without any chemical exposure. There was no history of local trauma, radiotherapy, HPV infections, or family history of malignancy. He was referred to our department's consultation for specialized care. No other personal or family history was raised during the patient interrogation.
Clinical examination showed painless swelling in the left cheek, a 3 × 3 cm mass presenting with irregular borders ().
There were no palpable neck lymph nodes on the left side.
A biopsy of surgical material was performed, showing a well-differentiated squamous cell carcinoma.
The definitive diagnosis of malignancy was made; metastatic investigations were performed, including chest radiography, abdominal echography, PET scan. The results of these exams were normal.
The computed tomography (CT) was performed and revealed a 4 × 4 cm mass along the cheek, and the alveolar bone was eroded.
Based on the positive medical history and clinical examination, surgery was indicated and performed by the chief professor of our department who has 15 years of operative experience. The surgical procedure had the aim of the restoration of the anatomic landmarks after a large excision of the tumor and reconstruction of full-thickness cheek defect with a deltopectoral flap under general anesthesia. (, , ).
Duration of surgery: 120 min; estimation of blood loss: 350 ml; duration of hospital stay: 4 days.
The patient received amoxicillin/clavulanic acid 1g twice daily and antalgics for 8 days.
Post-operative histopathology confirmed SCC proliferation ().
The multidisciplinary team deciding on the treatment options included surgeons, oncologists, radiotherapists, ENT surgeons, radiologists. The decision was made to treat the patient with the surgical approach with postoperative radiotherapy