A 53-year-old man presented to the emergency department with chest pain that started on the day of admission. He was a smoker, with dyslipidemia treated by atorvastatin 20 mg, with no family history of cardiac disease or significant pediatric history. He was in good general condition and had no signs of heart failure. His ECG showed sinus rhythm and ST segment elevation in the inferior leads ().
The patient underwent emergency coronary angiography. The right coronary artery (RCA) was totally occluded with an aneurysm involving the ostium (). Filling of the distal RCA from the left coronary system was observed. Giant aneurysms in the proximal portions of the left anterior descending (LAD) and left circumflex coronaries () were demonstrated. A second marginal branch was demonstrated with slow flow and filling defects.
An attempt to pass a guide wire to the proximal RCA through the ostial aneurysm failed, and the patient was transferred to the coronary care unit and treated with aspirin, clopidogrel, fractionated heparin, and morphine.
Echocardiography showed good left ventricular contraction with an estimated ejection fraction of 55% and wall motion abnormalities in the inferior and posterior walls. Peak troponin T was 1027 ng/l on the second day of hospitalization and decreased to 226 ng/l on the 7th day of hospitalization (normal < 13 ng/l). The angiographic findings were attributed to KD based on the proximal location and size of the aneurysms and the lack of another explanation for these findings.
A cardiac computed tomography was performed, which revealed a giant thrombotic nonocclusive aneurysm in the proximal LAD with calcifications of the margins of the aneurysm (); the maximal outer size of the LAD aneurysm is 35 × 33 mm, and the size of the lumen of the LAD is 9 × 11 mm. Moderate aneurysmal dilatation of the proximal left circumflex and an ostial thrombotic aneurysm of the right coronary artery were observed.
One week after admission, the patient underwent coronary bypass surgery. The giant aneurysm of the proximal LAD () was