The patient was a 34-year-old man who came to our hospital on May 12, 2016, with complaints of poststernal burning pain that lasted for 1 hour without relief. Physical examination and questioning revealed that the patient had chest pain lasting >1 hour which radiated to the neck, coupled with chest tightness, excessive sweating, and nausea. Emergency electrocardiography showed sinus bradycardia and ST-segment elevation in leads II, III, and aVF. This was followed by an immediate coronary angiography that showed coronary artery dilatation lesion with diffuse angiectasia, with significantly dilated vessel diameter at the dilatation site. The maximum diameter of the proximal right coronary artery (RCA) dilatation was up to 8 mm, and all 3 vessels including the left anterior descending (LAD), left circumflex (LCX), and RCA were involved. In addition, the patient's RCA showed coexisting tumor-like expansion, stenosis, and occlusion. The dilated coronary artery showed slow blood flow, and no thrombosis was found in the dilated lumen during the operation. Based on the patient's medical history, physical examination, and related auxiliary examinations, he was hospitalized for coronary heart disease, inferior wall AMI, CAE, arrhythmia, sinus bradycardia, and level I heart function (Killip classification). As the guidewire could not passthrough owing to the severe coronary artery occlusion, it was impossible to perform coronary stent implantation. The patient was hence admitted to the intracardiac intensive care unit for further monitoring and treatment. With conservative drug treatment, regular postoperative cryptogram sulfate, atorvastatin, isopropanol fumarate, the patient's condition was adequately controlled. The patient had no history of hypertension or diabetes. He had undergone left varicocele surgery 8 years ago, had a 10-year history of smoking, and consumed alcohol occasionally. The patient's father had coronary heart disease and his mother had hypertension. There was no family history of genetic disease or infectious disease.
The results of the emergency coronary angiography performed on May 12,