A 66-year-old male patient with no comorbidities, ex-smoker, on follow-up for a non-muscle-invasive bladder cancer operated resulting in T1G2 in the pathological examination, is subsequently receiving treatment with BCG and without recurrences during follow-up. The patient remains asymptomatic and does not report pain with ejaculation or perineal discomfort.
Physical examination and blood tests, including kidney function and PSA, did not show any abnormalities. The digital examination revealed a fibroelastic prostate, without pathological findings. The patient did not develop fertility problems throughout his life, being able to have two healthy children.
In the initial evaluation ultrasound, the absence of the left kidney was detected, as well as a left posterolateral multilobed lesion on the location of the seminal vesicle, with cystic areas and echogenic content of approximately 7 × 3.5 cm ().
Endoscopic examination reveals an absence of the left ureteral meatus, without other findings.
Abdominal-pelvic magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) was performed with acquisition of basal sequences, and after administration of intravenous gadolinium that revealed the absence of parenchyma of the left kidney, a tubular structure in the left lumbar and pelvic region was identified that seemed to correspond to the dilated ureter of up to 12 mm and with probable remnant of the renal pelvis in the most proximal lumbar portion. The ureter empties ectopically into the left seminal vesicle, which is markedly enlarged and multicystic in appearance, measuring approximately 6.9 cm in the oblique longitudinal major axis and 3.5 cm in the anteroposterior axis. Both the ureter and the seminal vesicle show high signal content in both T1 and T2, suggesting hemorrhagic content or a high proteinaceous component, and their walls and septa are thin, without significant contrast enhancement ().
The left vas deferens is patent, being more thickened in its part closest to the seminal vesicle. Cystic dilatation of the left ejaculatory duct was observed.
Given the absence of symptoms related to this pathology,