A 27-year-old, non-smoking, 197 cm tall, 118 kg weight male patient presented himself at an external medical practice with symptoms including cough and right-sided, thoracic pain. His past medical history was uneventful. Next to signs of gigantism, the physical examination determined weak breath sounds of the right lung. Furthermore, the patient suffered from augmentation of the facial configurations, large extremities with oversized hands and feet, with no correlation to the height of his parents. Even though laboratory investigations showed normal results, growth hormone levels were found to be massively elevated: 27.6 µg/l (normal 0.1–4.1 µg/l).
A subsequent CT scan revealed a huge tumor in the right lower lobe accompanied with calcifications as well as moderate pleural effusion (Fig. ). The tumor seems to invade all 3 lobes of the right lung, the posterior wall of the right main bronchus, both the upper and lower lung veins, as well as the right main pulmonary artery after the origin of the upper arterial trunk (Fig. ). Body plethysmography showed FEV1 of 85% and VC of 90%. Bronchoscopic examination showed complete obstruction of the right intermediate bronchus; however, the endobronchial biopsy showed no diagnosis. Therefore, we decided to perform a surgical biopsy. The exploration showed a huge, solid tumor, mainly located within the lower lobe, but infiltrating the middle lobe as well as two more segments of the upper lobe. Further exploration showed adherence of the tumor on the posterior wall of the right main bronchus, obliteration of the right lower lung vein and near total obliteration of the middle and upper lung veins. A frozen section revealed a TPCT. In this situation, right pneumonectomy with systematic mediastinal lymph node dissection was performed though prolongation of the small incision to an antero-lateral thoracotomy. In fact, the tumor measured 20 × 13 cm in diameter (Fig. a). The histopathological work-up showed tumor invasion of all three lobes of the