A 31-year-old gentleman with a recent history of a motor vehicle accident was brought in by the emergency medical services accompanied by his mother due to breathing difficulty. He reported that five days ago, he was involved in a motor vehicle accident, in which he sustained head trauma and underwent invasive mechanical ventilation. He was extubated two days later and stayed under observation for three days. Subsequently, he signed out against medical advice from the hospital; however, on the way back home, he developed "difficulty breathing with a sensation of something being stuck in his throat". His mother contacted the emergency medical services, and he came to the emergency department.
His medical history was otherwise not significant, except for the history of smoking and occasional alcohol consumption. His physical examination was benign, vitals were stable (Table ), and blood tests were normal (Table ). A chest X-ray showed no abnormalities, and a head CT scan without contrast showed no evidence of acute intracranial hemorrhage, infarct, or extra-axial fluid collection.
Shortly after arrival, he developed stridor, shortness of breath, tachycardia, and tachypnea (Table ), at which point, he was started on a course of racemic epinephrine, albuterol, and dexamethasone, with mild improvement in symptoms. As improvements were not satisfactory, a chest CT scan with contrast was performed, which showed no evidence of acute pulmonary embolism. However, a membranous structure in the trachea was incidentally discovered (Figure ). Subsequently, a CT scan of the neck soft tissue revealed prominent airway narrowing throughout the nasopharynx and oropharynx based on the prominence of the lymphoid soft tissues and markedly abnormal trachea below the cricoid cartilage with luminal narrowing (Figure ). Consequently, he was admitted to the intensive care unit, and in the meantime, emergency bronchoscopy was planned for direct visualization and possible extraction of the tracheal pseudomembrane. However, a short time later he coughed up a