We present the case of a 23-year-old male, with no significant medical history, who was admitted in our unit because of upper quadrant abdominal discomfort, recurrent nausea and vomiting, and weight loss of 4 kg in the last three months. During medical history, he revealed multiple emergency department visits (4 visits over a 12-week period) and two 24-hour hospitalizations for recurrent vomiting within this period. He also reported episodes lasting for several days characterized by severe nausea with vomiting between 8 and 10 times per day and abdominal pain. Episodes lasted approximately 3 days with full recovery between attacks. Attacks' frequency in our patient was 2 per month. In the emergency department, the patient was managed with treatment for dehydration including intravenous fluids. Antiemetics, including metoclopramide, were ineffective. His social history revealed daily cannabis use and occasional alcohol intake. The patient's mother stated that he began smoking cannabis at the age of 18 years and that he was smoking 6 cigarettes daily (3 g per day). On examination, the temperature was 37.2°C, the abdomen was tender on palpation of upper quadrants, blood pressure was 120/80 mm Hg, and pulse was 75 bpm. Neurological examination was negative for focal deficit. Liver function tests showed normal levels of alkaline phosphatase (ALP), gamma-glutamyl transferase (GGT), aspartate aminotransferase (AST), alanine aminotransferase (ALT), and total bilirubin. Other parameters including leukocytes, hemoglobin, platelet counts, renal function tests, basic metabolic panel, and glucose were normal. Abdominal ultrasound did not show gallbladder or pancreatic pathology. A cerebral CT scan was performed, and it was normal (). Upper gastrointestinal endoscopy was performed and showed congestive gastropathy (). H. pylori infection was detected on antrum and lesser curvature biopsies and was correctly treated with a bismuth-containing quadruple therapy. Cannabinoid hyperemesis syndrome was highly suspected: recurrent episodes of severe nausea and intractable vomiting, abdominal pain, and daily habitual use of cannabis.
Multiple sessions of