A 43-year-old right-hand-dominant male patient, with a history of axial SpA, bilateral sacroiliitis with positive HLA-B27 and possible history of uveitis, was referred in January 2020 with bilateral digital ischaemia, worse on the right side. Six weeks before that, he presented under the rheumatology services with a milder degree of skin changes affecting his fingers in the form of blisters. His working diagnosis was Beurger’s disease, in the context of a history of heavy smoking. He was advised to stop smoking and received a prescription for glyceryl trinitrate patches and calcium channel blocker tablets, along with arrangements of outpatient prostaglandin infusion sessions. At that time, the patient was seen in the outpatient department; he declined to wait for vascular assessment and subsequently did not attend a magnetic resonance angiogram appointment. He reported gradual progression of ischaemia over the course of 6 weeks despite vasodilator infusions and medical treatment and was referred to the oncall vascular team. He reported no previous history of arm claudication, cardiovascular disease or exposure to vibration tools. He was unemployed and used to be a van driver.
On examination, it was noticed that there was difficulty in recording blood pressure in the right arm, with a profoundly ischaemic hand in the form of fixed mottling of the thumb, index and middle fingers, whereas the ulnar side was pale, insensate and with reduced motor function. He was noticed to have a scar on the volar aspect of his wrist and thenar eminence from previous laceration at the age of 14 years, which necessitated reconstructive surgery in a different hospital. He had an easily palpable subclavian pulse with suspected dilatation, but no pulses below. He reported improvement in the left-hand blisters, and the left side had a normal full complement of pulses. All serological markers of vasculitis were negative. An urgent CT angiogram revealed the presence of bilateral cervical ribs, compression of the right subclavian artery in the abduction position and occlusion of