A 17-year-old white female gravida 1 para 0-0-0-0 with a past medical history of depression, panic attacks and right nephrolithiasis presented to a rural community hospital at 38 weeks 4 days for induction of labor. She had been receiving routine prenatal care. Patient’s pregnancy was complicated by right nephrolithiasis, young maternal age, a slipped disc in the lumbar spine and chlamydia during pregnancy. The decision was made to proceed with induction of labor at 38 weeks and 4 days rather than waiting for 39 weeks secondary to the patient’s nephrolithiasis and back pain from a slipped disc. This decision was made with the assistance of physicians who were board certified in maternal fetal medicine. Medications at the time of induction included sertraline 100 mg daily, macrobid 100 mg daily for urinary tract infections, and prenatal vitamins. She claimed compliance with these medications and denied any other medications, vitamins, or supplements. She had previously been prescribed escitalopram for her depression and anxiety but switched to sertraline 50 mg daily 4 months prior to delivery. Prior to this she had been on escitalopram for greater than two years. She felt that symptoms were not adequately controlled, so the dose of sertraline was later increased to 100 mg daily 2 months and 17 days prior to delivery. The last 100 mg dose of sertraline was given 5 h and 26 min prior to delivery. The patient denied use of tobacco, alcohol, or illicit drugs during pregnancy.
Patient was induced via 10 mg topical vaginal dinoprostone given one time and allowed to dilate. Subsequently she underwent an amniotomy after she was placed on oxytocin 20 unit in 1000 mL sodium chloride 0.9% infusion given at the rate of 1munit/min. She was allowed to progress through the normal stages of labor with no maternal or fetal complications. Continuous fetal monitoring was performed per hospital protocol, and tracing fluctuated between category I and category II without any unexpected decel