A 78-year-old Japanese male presented to the emergency department of our hospital with low back pain on exertion for 1 week. The pain was described as dull and gradually worsens. Although the location was near the thoracolumbar spine, he denied radiation of the pain to any parts of the body. Severity of pain using a numerical rating scale was 10/10 at the day of admission. The character and intensity of the pain were not affected by changes in physical movement or by rest. He denied any other symptoms such as fever, nausea, dysuria, hematuria, abdominal pain, and leg numbness during his clinical course.
He had a past medical history of rectal cancer with liver metastasis and had undergone surgery and chemotherapy. At the time of diagnosis, rectal cancer was stage IV (TNM classification of malignant tumors; T3N2M1), grade 3, and was revealed to be adenocarcinoma during histopathology. Liver metastasis affected segments 3 and 6. He underwent low anterior resection of the rectum and resection of the affected liver segments. He then underwent chemotherapy using fluorouracil that was arterially infused through a catheter inserted into the femoral artery and implanted into the hepatic artery through the celiac artery. He initially had good response to treatment but 2 years after diagnosis, he had a recurrence of liver metastasis. He underwent partial resection of segment 6 of the liver and was followed by chemotherapy using FOLFOX6 + bevacizumab protocol instead of arterial infusion. After finishing chemotherapy, he achieved complete remission 11 years after initial diagnosis. As a result of the possibility of another recurrence, the catheter remained in place without being replaced. His other past medical history was hypertension and he remained on amlodipine 5 mg daily and imidapril 5 mg daily. Social history revealed that he had smoked approximately 10 cigarettes a day for 50 years and drank alcohol occasionally. Family and environmental history was unremarkable. His employment history was an office worker, but he retired at the age of 60 and has not worked since then.