A 54-year-old Caucasian male presented to the emergency department with severe chest pain, dyspnea, and dizziness along with left arm pain and weakness. The symptoms occurred while he attempted to install an overhead light fixture. His perceived dizziness was further described as lightheadedness and presyncopal symptoms, which always occurred when he was working with his left arm, particularly if his left arm was raised above his head. He stated that his left arm pain and weakness had been progressive to the point that he could no longer work as he could not hold his tools. Previously, he had been seen in the outpatient cardiology clinic multiple times throughout the last two years with complaints of recurrent angina. However, despite medical recommendations, he never underwent a coronary angiogram or stress test for further evaluation due to severe fear and anxiety associated with these procedures.
Past medical history was significant for hypertension, diabetes, hyperlipidemia, smoking, anxiety, and ischemic cardiomyopathy. A component of previous treatment for the ischemic cardiomyopathy was a four-vessel CABG in 2008, achieved by grafting the LIMA to the left anterior descending artery and SVGs to a diagonal branch, obtuse marginal branch, and posterior descending artery. Vitals were significant for a 23 mmHg difference in systolic blood pressures obtained from bilateral upper extremities, and physical examination revealed diminished pulses in the left arm, raising the suspicion for subclavian stenosis. Coronary and bypass angiography was performed due to concerns of unstable angina and revealed 100% occlusion of the proximal left subclavian artery (Figure ).
Angiogram confirmed complete flow reversal from the proximal left subclavian artery to the LIMA (Video ).
The LIMA had dilated from approximately its average size of 2 mm to 10 mm, which is approximately the average size of the subclavian artery. Bilateral carotid duplex revealed no hemodynamically significant stenosis. Left carotid-subclavian bypass surgery was performed which relieved his exertional angina along with dizziness and left arm discomfort.