The reported case involves a 49-year-old female patient who had experienced chest tightness for one year. She had untreated familial vitiligo since childhood, and received one-time PAAG injection for breast augmentation 20 years ago. The dosage and the initial injection plane were unknown. Except familial vitiligo, the patient had no other significant past medical history or family history of cancer. And the patient did not smoke or drink alcohol. A few months after the operation, the PAAG began to spread to abdominal regions. Specifically, it was detected in the infraclavicular, subcutaneous tissue of right thoracic wall, perineum, and left side of the upper back. In addition, the skin and soft tissues adjacent to the areas invaded by PAAG became harder and formed numerous hard lumps, especially in the breasts. However, she reported no fever, pain or discomfort. Due to shame and fear, she did not seek medical advice for 15 years. In 2015, she learnt through the Internet of the dangers associated with PAAG and sought medical advice from a physician in November, 2015. She was then hospitalized in the Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences Plastic Surgery Hospital. Chest and abdomen MRI T2-weighted sequence images showed the presence of PAAG gel in many places, including the chest and abdomen wall (Fig. ). In the chest, it was present in subcutaneous tissue and breast gland. Needle biopsy requested by her excluded the possibility of malignant lesions, scleroderma or granuloma. The patient refused to be operated because of high surgical cost, and complications, especially delayed wound healing.
During the subsequent four years, she experienced gradual deterioration of breast contracture and chest tightness accompanied with mild breathing difficulties. The patient visited our plastic surgery department seeking a less invasive treatment option. Physical examination revealed malformation of the anterior trunk and hardening of the chest wall. Different lump sizes were detected over the right clavicular region and the bilateral arch of rib. Lumps were also detected