A 71-year-old Caucasian female patient presented to the general surgeon appointment complaining of dysphagia, after initial evaluation in the general practice clinic. She is retired but used to work in a textile manufacturer. The patient had a previous medical history of arterial hypertension, osteoarthritis, and incomplete CREST (calcinosis, Raynaud's phenomenon, esophageal dysmotility, sclerodactyly, and telangiectasia) syndrome and was medicated with glucosamine, calcium supplements, and amlodipine (10 mg, once daily). She had no known medication allergies and no history of tobacco or alcohol consumption; the patient also denied chronic use of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs. The familial medical history was unremarkable.
The dysphagia was present for two years for solid foods only. The patient avoided this kind of food but otherwise had no other restrictions on her diet. She also complained of sporadic dyspeptic symptoms. The patient had no other symptoms namely nausea, vomiting, sialorrhea, anorexia, weight loss, or abdominal pain. The physical exam was unremarkable.
The diagnostic workup started in the general practice clinic with an upper endoscopic study and esophageal manometry. The endoscopy was incomplete due to stenosis at the cricopharyngeus not allowing passage of the standard endoscope; no biopsies were taken. The esophageal manometry showed dysmotility of the distal two-thirds of the esophagus. The patient was then referred to a general surgery appointment in our institution.
A second endoscopic study was performed to achieve mucosal sampling and try to surpass the stenosis. This was possible with a 55 mm scope and the mucosa of the proximal esophagus showed trachealization with no other relevant alterations. The stomach and the duodenum were normal. Biopsies were taken from the stenosis and the adjacent mucosa of the esophagus (both proximally and distally).
A barium swallow study and a second manometry were also performed. The former did not reveal any esophageal diverticula, stenoses or hiatus hernia and both showed no signs of esophageal motility