A 56-year-old male was admitted to our hospital for an increasing swelling mass at the root of his right neck (Figure ). He had an active smoking history, but no history of chest pain or trauma. Physical examination found a large pulsating mass on the right neck, without other significant clinical findings. Angio-CT scan revealed a large thrombosed aneurysm of 65 x 60 x 170 mm, originating from the innominate trunk; there was no involvement of the origin of the right carotid and subclavian arteries (Figure , Figure ). The electrocardiogram revealed a previous inferior wall myocardial infarction with negative T-waves in the inferior leads (Figure ). Transthoracic echocardiography showed severe depressed left ventricular function [ejection fraction (EF): 35%] (Figure ). Coronary angiography revealed atherosclerotic coronary disease with chronic occlusion of the right proximal coronary artery (RCA), severe stenosis of the main of the diagonal artery, and severe stenosis of the circumflex artery. Myocardial viability study confirmed the presence of viable myocardium in the lateral wall and the anterior wall with non-viable myocardium of the inferior wall. A CT angiogram scan of the cerebral arteries showed a permeable Willis polygon.
The decision was made to perform a simultaneous operation of the IAA resection and coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG).
Under general anesthesia, peripheral femoral arterial cannulation was performed along with the catheterization of the left carotid artery; a median sternotomy extending into the right side of the neck along with the medial edge of the sternocleidomastoid muscle was performed. Cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) circuitry was completed with cannulation of the superior and inferior vena cava, and the patient was cooled to 25 °C. The myocardial arrest was achieved by cold crystalloid cardioplegia. The fragile part of the ascending aorta was clamped and resected over the coronary ostia at the level of the sinotubular junction (Figure ).
A Dacron aortic graft was