A 66-year-old female presented with a history of SCLC of right middle lung lobe (stage 1). She has undergone right middle lobe (RML) lobectomy followed by four cycles of adjuvant carboplatin and etoposide. Fourteen month later, she developed recurrence in her subcarinal/paratracheal nodes confirmed on endobronchial ultrasound (EBUS) biopsy. She then had concurrent chemotherapy with radiation completed followed by prophylactic cranial irradiation. Again she developed recurrent disease in celiac axis nodes confirmed on biopsy for which she was started on nivolumab. Ten months after starting nivolumab therapy, the patient presented to the office complaining of dizziness, imbalance, and double vision. Past medical history included chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), diabetes mellitus type 2, neuropathy, and myocardial infarction (MI). She was a former smoker with 75 PPD smoking history and had a family history significant of lung cancer.
Physical examination was positive for a significant vertical nystagmus. MRI of the brain in November, 2018 showed extensive symmetric linear hyperintensity in T2 Flair throughout medulla, dorsal pons, and midbrain with post contrast enhancement (Figure ).
The patient was started on oral steroids with a tapering dose. Nivolumab was held for six weeks and her symptoms improved over this period. Then she was given a re-challenge dose of nivolumab but her vision and balance worsened again. Again, she was started on oral steroids with a tapering dose and nivolumab was held. Blurry vision and imbalance were improved within a few days, but nystagmus gradually improved over five months. The patient remained off treatment with observation alone for nine months when MRI of the brain showed resolution of abnormal linear enhancement of the brain parenchyma (Figure ), however, follow up CT demonstrated focal area of consolidation in superior lobe of right lung and enlarged posterior pancreatic lymph node.
The positron emission tomography (PET) scan showed mild activity nodule in right upper lobe (RUL),