A 59-year-old caucasian female was diagnosed with thyroid papillary carcinoma after total thyroidectomy in 2001. Diagnosed with postsurgical hypothyroidism under treatment with levothyroxine, 100 micrograms per day. There was no other previous medical history of interest. The patient did not consume tobacco or alcohol.
In 2008, a computerized tomography scan (CT) showed locoregional relapse and surgery was performed with resection of locoregional recurrence and left cervical lymphadenectomy. In November 2011, pulmonary relapse was treated with I-131 since November 2011 until March 2012 (total accumulated dose: 850 mCi). In October 2016, a CT scan showed a progression of the disease with cervical and pulmonary progression. The patient started sorafenib, 400 mg twice a day. Stable disease was maintained during 20 months. In June 2018, patient presented an episode of abrupt instability and cervical pain. The magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) (Fig. ) showed a new metastatic lesion in the skull base with destruction of bony structures of the left occipital-petrous region. At this point, a molecular study of the cervical node was performed and a mutation in BRAF was found.
Due to the lack of alternative therapeutic options, treatment with vemurafenib–trametinib was requested as a compassionate use. In August 2018, patient was started on the combination of dabrafenib 150 mg twice a day and trametinib 2 mg once a day. MRI in October 2018 showed a slight decrease of the metastatic lesion in the skull base (Fig. ). In addition, the patient showed evident clinical improvement with decreased initial headache and cervicalgia.
A follow-up PET–CT scan was performed in January 2019. Tumor was on radiological partial response. In addition, there was intestinal pneumatosis with mild sign of pneumoperitoneum (Fig. ). Patient had no digestive symptoms and the abdominal medical examination was completely normal. Also normal neurological examination was verified. Routine physical examination showed blood pressure 110/60 mmHg, heart rate 80