A 29-year-old male patient, without any significant past medical or surgical history, presented with hematemesis complaints about three days, coffee ground color, and sometimes bright red color containing clots. He also had a history of melena for the past three days. The patient did not have any history of abdominal pain or history suggestive of liver disease. He was non-alcoholic and non-smoker. The patient had presented to a local hospital, where blood transfusion was done, and he was referred to our hospital for further management. On presentation patient was dehydrated, severe pallor and tachycardia were present. Initially, the patient was managed conservatively with intravenous fluids and blood transfusion.
Upper gastrointestinal endoscopy was done, which showed normal mucosa of the stomach with a bulge along the stomach’s greater curvature. The site of bleeding could not be visualized. Contrast-enhanced computed tomography (CECT) abdomen with oral contrast was done, showing a large 8 × 6 × 7 cm predominantly exophytic mass involving posterior wall body and greater curvature and lesser curvature of the stomach with infiltration to the pancreas (Figure ).
However, imaging was not definitive, whether the tumor was arising from the stomach or the pancreas. Endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) was done for definitive diagnosis. During EUS, it was observed that the stomach was full of blood clots; hence the procedure was deferred, and the patient was planned for surgery.
Based on the presentation and investigation done, we had thought of three differential diagnoses. Gastric GIST, which is infiltrating into the pancreas, was our first diagnosis, supported by the patient’s age and clinical symptoms. Although very rare, pancreatic GIST is infiltrating into the stomach, but it was our second differential diagnosis. Solid tumor of the pancreas presenting as acute gastrointestinal bleed was our third differential diagnosis, which is also rare, as these tumors are common in females and occur in significantly a younger age group.
Diagnostic laparoscopy was