A 35-year-old female, not known to have any chronic illnesses, presented to the urology department after the patient developed sudden hematuria six hours after a lower abdominal cesarean section. Her medical history was insignificant with one previous child who was delivered by CS and no allergies or medications confirmed. Meanwhile, social history was negative for tobacco, alcohol, or any illicit drug use. Upon examination, the patient was afebrile, vitally and hemodynamically stable, while systemic review was unremarkable. Moreover, local examination showed a full flank with mild abdominal distention and mild generalized tenderness without any signs of peritonitis. Regarding her investigations, complete blood count was within normal limits while Renal Function Test (RFT) showed elevated creatinine (3.42 mg/dl) (Table ). A non-contrasted Computed Tomography (CT) was ordered and a finding of a large amount of intraperitoneal fluid accumulations was reported (Figure ). After normalization of serum creatinine and glomerular filtration rate (GFR), which was achieved by a foley catheter drainage, a CT cystogram showed a defect in the dome of the urinary bladder with extravasation of contrast to intraperitoneal space (Figure ).
The choice of taking a non-invasive approach was determined after the patient's refusal for any further surgical interventions to be done. Afterwards, tapping off the intraperitoneal fluid was done with an abdominal fluid drain insertion which was inserted under local anesthesia and under the guidance of ultrasound and complete aseptic conditions rather than the standard surgical approach for the removal of the intraperitoneal fluid collection. Moreover, a 6.5 French pigtail catheter was inserted for 14 days to allow for maximum fluid drainage with a plan for surgery in case there is further deterioration. Fluid chemistry showed high creatinine levels (377 mmol/L), indicating the presence of urine in the abdominal area within less than 24 hours. The following day, her condition improved substantially, pain subsided with no symptom or sign of peritonitis, while GFR levels