Mr. E.A., 46 years old, father of 6 children, the patient had a history of pulmonary tuberculosis treated 20 years ago and pericardial effusion drained 6 years ago, chronic tobacco user at 26 PA weaned 7 years ago. Symptoms go back to 4 months, marked by the appearance of terminal clot hematuria without other associated signs.
The abdominal examination is without abnormalities. The rectal examination finds a homogeneous prostate of 25 g without a suspect nodule. All evolving in a context of declining general condition (ASA2).
Abdominal ultrasound revealed a heterogeneous tissue process budding endovesical, the site of a few cystic areas and calcifications, with irregular contours, vascularized by color Doppler. This process measuring 67.4 × 53 × 42.4mm, continues at the top and follows the path of the urachus ().
The patient underwent a cystoscopy which found a budding tumor with a large implantation base in the anterior wall and bladder dome. The histological study, after endoscopic resection, revealed a tumor proliferation made up of tall columnar cells, provided with a large nucleus, a fine chromatin. These cells are arranged in a villous structure, and dilated tubes filled with mucus. It is an isolated tubulovillous adenocarcinoma and infiltrating the superficial chorion of the bladder mucosa.
An immunohistochemical study which objectified an aspect compatible with a moderately differentiated CK7 positive adenocarcinoma (TTF 1 and CK20 are negative).
Computed tomography revealed the presence of a budding wall thickening of the anterior wall of the bladder, with endo and exophytic development in the peritoneum with preservation of a fatty border of separation with the digestive loops. It measures 52 × 49 mm. He also presents in the lungs an inferior left lobe tissue process (, ).
The chest x-ray showed a left basal opacity and at the level of the left middle arch associated with a mediastinal widening with widening of the angle of the carina ().
The patient underwent a bronchoscopy which showed a budding tumor located