We present a case of a 28-year-old female with a chronic history of intermittent abdominal pain aggravated due to titanium allergy and retained foreign surgical body. The patient's past medical history consists of depression, polycythemia vera, hypothyroidism, mitral valve prolapse, chronic back pain, and deep vein thrombosis of nonextremity and acute cholecystitis. The patient's past surgical history includes a tonsillectomy, an appendectomy, and cholecystectomy. The patient's social history is insignificant, with no smoking or alcohol consumption. The patient has allergic symptoms reported from IV contrast, nickel, titanium, iodine, metoclopramide, and oxalate. The patient did not report any screening for immunodeficiency in the past.
The patient initially presented to the clinic with an intermittent right upper quadrant (RUQ) pain in 2016. She also reported low-grade fever, nausea, vomiting, joint pain, bloody diarrhea, and inability to keep her food down. This resulted in approximately 75 lbs. of weight loss in only four months of duration. Eleven months prior, the patient had undergone cholecystectomy due to acute cholecystitis complicated by a liver abscess. During the cholecystectomy, six titanium surgical clips were placed in the RUQ. The patient had delayed hypersensitivity reaction to nickel in the past with erythematous rash formation and severe itching. With her history of allergy to other metals in the past, a titanium allergy was suspected at this visit, and the patient promptly underwent a titanium skin patch test that turned out positive. To confirm, the patient was further ordered for memory lymphocyte immunostimulation assay (MELISA) that also showed equivocal results for titanium allergy. A decision was made to remove all the metal surgical clips laparoscopically via fluoroscopic guidance (). The patient recovered well with no significant intraoperative or postoperative complications. She reported a complete resolution of all symptoms one-month postsurgery.
In the following years, the patient went through an ERCP procedure multiple times due to her sphincter of Oddi dysfunction followed by laparoscopic rectopexy for a rectal