A 46-year-old male presented with sudden visual disturbance that started one month prior to presentation. The patient had been having problems with blurred vision, loss of peripheral vision, and floaters in his left eye only. He was specific in that his symptoms were only occurring out of his left eye. He stated that his symptoms started with his central vision loss and then he could not see out of the peripheral part of his vision. He did have a history of ocular migraines, but these symptoms were different than his usual migraines. These new symptoms were persistent and not intermittent. In addition, he had just had a full eye examination by a neuro-ophthalmologist the week before and no eye abnormalities were found. The patient denied any events that provoked or alleviated the complaint. There was no significant medical and social history related to his chief complaint. He worked as a construction worker and reported a significant amount of stress in his life. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the brain and carotid ultrasound were recently done and were reported as normal.
Past medical history included a history of lumbar back pain, gastroesophageal reflux, allergic rhinitis, and depression. He had a minor surgery as a child for his knees and a broken ankle. He was married, non-smoker, and worked full time as a construction worker. Family history was otherwise unremarkable. He had no recent foreign travel history. Review of systems was otherwise normal.
On physical examination, his vitals were normal. He was awake, alert, and oriented, and his mental status was normal. He had a normal eye examination except that he had a monocular left-sided inferior visual field defect (confirmed by formal visual field testing). Right eye examination was normal including visual eye fields. The remainder of the neurological and physical examination was normal.
Initially, as the eye examination was normal and the symptoms were monocular, an assumption was made that the symptoms were from stress and that, with time, the