A 31-year-old female of Indian descent originally presented with chronic right-sided nasal obstruction, congestion and sinusitis. She previously underwent septoplasty and endoscopic sinus surgery 8 years ago. Her symptoms persisted and the deformity of her nasal bridge became more splayed, taking on the appearance of an external nasal mass. A biopsy revealed rich inflammatory infiltrate surrounding the blood vessels with a prominent onion-skin pattern, consistent with EAF extension into bony and skeletal muscle tissue ().
A tertiary referral was then made to our department 3 years ago. Her main complaints were severe nasal blockage and sinus pain, but no epistaxis. The patient was otherwise in good health with no signs of systemic vasculitis or autoimmune disorder and she was not on any medication. There was no significant smoking or alcohol history. She had an allergy to penicillin. The patient had immigrated from India at the age of 16 years.
Physical examination revealed involvement of the nasal bones and cartilage, resulting in an enlargement and expansion of the nose. There was significant right-sided nasal passage obstruction with a soft tissue mass that had an oedematous appearance.
MRI showed a lobulated diffuse soft tissue mass of the nasolabial folds bilaterally, extending posteriorly to involve the anterior half of the inferior and middle turbinates as well as the anteroinferior nasal septum, mildly narrowing both nasal vestibules (). There was soft tissue thickening extending to the nasal bridge.
Given the functional and cosmetic difficulties of gross total removal, the patient underwent subtotal resection, including removal of the nasal bones through an open septorhinoplasty approach. The resultant defect was reconstructed with rib grafts. The post-operative recovery was uneventful and the patient’s symptoms had improved. The pathology report confirmed EAF. 4 months postoperatively, the follow-up MRI documented residual disease along the right nasofacial groove with mild mass effect. Subsequent MRIs over 2 years of follow-up showed minimal progression. The patient continued to complain of mild but