A 45-year-old Asian-Indian female presented to her physician with the symptoms of constant fatigue, pain, inability to focus, and heavy vaginal bleeding every two weeks that would last 8-10 days and remit. The patient reported that this pattern occurred for a year before it became constant light bleeding that did not cease. She was found to have an iron deficiency anemia, not corrected by oral iron supplementation. She had no history of smoking and only drank a couple of times a month. There was no known family history of leiomyomas or RCC. Upon completion of pelvic ultrasound, two uterine leiomyomas were detected with possible endometrial cavity involvement. The largest leiomyoma was observed to be 3.4 cm in the greatest dimension on ultrasound. The patient then underwent a laparoscopic complete hysterectomy about a year and a half after the onset of symptoms. Gross observation of the removed uterus revealed an 11 x 9 x 7 cm uterus with two fibroids, an endometrial polyp, and unremarkable tubes and ovaries. Histologically, the leiomyomas demonstrated classic benign histologic findings (Figure ). The patient had no symptomology or complications until eight months later when the patient presented with hematuria.
X-ray, computed tomography (CT), and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) were performed and revealed a left enhancing, exophytic renal mass measuring 14 x 11 x 9.3 cm (Figure ). Positron emission tomography (PET) CT revealed no focus of increased metabolism concerning for metastatic disease. The patient underwent a transabdominal open left radical left nephrectomy with the removal of the left adrenal gland and hilar and periaortic lymph node dissection. The mass removed measured 12 x 12 x 8 cm. Gross examination of the kidney specimen revealed multiple sites of necrosis with extension of the tumor to the renal sinus, ureter, and segmental branches of the renal vein without invasion. The tumor did not invade the Gerota’s fascia. Histological examination revealed chromophobe RCC due to the presence of cells with eosinophilic