A 34-year-old white female diagnosed with Graves hyperthyroidism was initially treated for about 18 weeks with methimazole without improvement in thyroid levels because of severe endometriosis history, bilateral oophorectomy, and hysterectomy five years before her Graves diagnosis. Her gynecologist did not start hormone replacement therapy on account of her smoking history. Graves orbitopathy and smoking history made RAI ablation contraindicated. She opted for total thyroidectomy to treat her large goiter and associated pressure symptoms. She developed immediate postoperative hypoparathyroidism, presenting with symptomatic hypocalcemia within 24 hours of total thyroidectomy. Pathology reports of the surgical specimen demonstrated diffusely enlarged thyroid along with two parathyroid glands. During hospitalization, she was treated with intravenous calcium gluconate drip and was discharged home on calcium carbonate, vitamin D, and active vitamin D.
Despite her adherence to the discharge regimen, she experienced hypocalcemia symptoms of fatigue and frequent cramping in the hands. She required regular ER visits for symptomatic hypocalcemia. A PICC line was placed due to frequent hospitalizations and the need for calcium monitoring every two weeks. In the six months following her surgery, she required eight ER visits with four overnight stays in the hospital. During hospitalizations, the patient was treated with intravenous calcium gluconate and was discharged on oral calcium and active vitamin D regimen. Postsurgical hypothyroidism remained under reasonable control on a stable levothyroxine dose.
The patient denied the previous history of malabsorption, and celiac disease screening was negative as well. Elevated 24-hour urine calcium before initiation of hydrochlorothiazide was 402 mg/24-hour urine specimen.
The patient's thyroidectomy was performed in August 2019. In September 2019, that 1-84 PTH was recalled and not available for 1-84 PTH naïve patients. At the time of initial consultation in this endocrinology clinic (May 2020), the patient's medications included more than 30 pills daily ().
The initial plan is summarized in . Due to the current unavailability of 1-84 PTH