A 30-year-old man was referred by his general practitioner to our department for review of recurrent tonsillitis. While awaiting a tonsillectomy, the patient developed new-onset snoring and sense of airway obstruction which relieves on neck extension and a lump in his throat. He had no significant past medical history and denied smoking or drinking alcohol.
Clinical examination including flexible nasendoscopy demonstrated a firm, smooth swelling arising from the left lateral pharyngeal wall extending superiorly to the level of the soft palate and inferiorly to the level of epiglottis. The oral cavity, oropharynx, larynx, and both piriform fossae appeared normal.
A magnetic resonance imaging scan (Figures and ) showed a well-defined 2.9 x 1.9 cm low signal mass inseparable from the left capitis longus muscle on T1 precontrast images with anterior displacement of the well-preserved prevertebral fat and no locally aggressive features. There was uniform enhancement with contrast and no diffusion restriction. Overall, the appearances were in keeping with a benign soft tissue tumor.
Contrast CT reported an absence of calcification or enhancement supporting a benign process with no aggressive features. The patient underwent examination under anesthetic and biopsy of the pharyngeal mass and the fine needle aspiration of the neck lump reported only inflammatory cells and numerous benign squamous epithelial cells with occasional macrophages.
The case was discussed at the local head and neck multidisciplinary team meeting with a resulting recommendation of local excision of the primary lesion with the aim of relieving clinical symptoms. The patient was appropriately consented and listed for an external approach neck exploration with excision of lesion.
The lesion was accessed by horizontal skin crease incision, clearing level 2a soft tissue, identifying neurovascular structures (great vessels which were retracted laterally, dissecting and protecting hypoglossal, accessory and superior laryngeal nerves). Mass was dissected superiorly and freed from the prevertebral muscles. Intraoperative specimens (Figures and ) consisted of the