A 74-year old male with a history of diabetes mellitus type two, hypertension, and hyperlipidemia presented to the Memory Clinic in September 2013 with a chief complaint of progressive short-term memory loss during the last three to four years. Functionally, he was independent in his activities of daily living with no changes in sleep or appetite. Vital signs and physical exam, including neurologic exam, were normal. His social history was significant for smoking one pack per day for many years and 16 years of education. Family medical history is significant for a maternal aunt diagnosed with Alzheimer’s dementia in her 70s. Initial assessment, including the administration of a 90-minute battery of neuropsychological testing, revealed mild impairments in list learning, delayed recall, and recognition pattern in verbal memory. Therefore, a diagnosis of single-domain amnestic mild cognitive impairment (aMCI) was made. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the brain was obtained, which showed no significant hippocampal volume loss by visual rating or significant white matter disease (Figure ).
After a couple of years, the patient underwent a volumetric MRI, which revealed a hippocampal volume of 5% as compared to his age-and gender-matched peers (Figure ). One year later, a second volumetric MRI demonstrated further hippocampal volume loss from 5% to 3% (Figure ). He underwent amyloid imaging as part of an observational research study, which was read as positive for moderate to frequent neuritic plaques in the cortex. Considering his amnestic cognitive profile and hippocampal atrophy with accelerated hippocampal volume loss, a diagnosis of amnestic MCI due to AD with the highest probability was made. He was then referred for a major multi-center anti-amyloid antibody clinical trial. As part of the study requirement, he underwent another amyloid imaging. Despite the first reported positive amyloid imaging, the second one (part of the clinical trial) was read as negative (Figure ). As a result, he did not qualify for participation in the clinical trial