A 67-year-old man presented to our ENT department with complaints of shortness of breath and dysphonia that had been ongoing for 2 months. This patient was referred to the ENT outpatient department with a growing tumor on the right side of the larynx. Histology of a biopsy sample verified a benign tumor. Because the biological behavior of the tumor was described as aggressive growth, a new biopsy was performed. The sample was analyzed, and histology showed a suspicious fibrosarcoma. He had not been smoking and denied alcohol consumption. Respiration was difficult.
A laryngeal examination revealed an exophytic mass in the right vocal cord and anterior commissure. The mobility of the right vocal cord was maintained, and there was a tumor of approximately 12 mm × 15 mm × 17 mm arising from the commissure and ventral part of the vocal cord.
Direct microlaryngoscopy was performed under general anesthesia with a representative biopsy taken from the lesion. The result of the histopathological examination was myofibroblastic sarcoma of the larynx. The laryngoscopy showed the tumor of the vocal cord, the mobility of the right vocal fold was with reduced excursion of the vocal cord by the tumor mass, but the mobility was more than 2 mm in the lateromedial direction. The vocal cord on the left had complete function.
Given the respiratory distress, an urgent tracheostomy with general anesthesia was performed.
CT scans showed the transglottic location of the tumor mass being 40 mm × 22 mm × 16 mm into the base of the epiglottic cartilage. No infiltration to the cartilage was evident. No lymph nodes were described, as the largest lymph node was not over 5 mm. See .
We performed a total laryngectomy. The tumor in the larynx was completely obstructed by the laryngeal lumen. Revision of the lymph nodes on both sides was performed, and no evidence of enlargement was detected. A histopathological diagnosis of myofibroblastic sarcoma of the larynx (MFS / LGMS) was performed.
The next step involved beam