This is a 50-year-old white male who originally presented in 2004 with complaints of epigastric abdominal pain. The patient's past medical history was significant for hypertension, 30-pack per-year history of tobacco use, occasional ETOH use, diabetes, hyperlipidemia, and regular marijuana use. Workup at that time revealed elevated amylase and lipase levels, a dedicated gallbladder ultrasound was unremarkable, and the final diagnosis of thiazide-induced pancreatitis was made. The medication was discontinued, laboratory values normalized, and the patient was discharged. The patient presented again in 2005 with similar complaints and lab abnormalities. Upon questioning, the patient stated he continued his thiazide medication since prior discharge; the thiazide was again discontinued. Following clinical improvement the patient was discharged and switched to an ACE inhibitor for blood pressure management. In the outpatient clinical setting, the patient continued to have unresolved epigastric abdominal discomfort despite unremarkable amylase and lipase values. In light of this, a computed tomography (CT) scan of the abdomen and pelvis was performed in early 2006 demonstrating a hypervascular retroperitoneal mass intimately related to the pancreas (Figures , , and ). A positron emission tomography (PET) scan performed 7/2006 demonstrated intense FDG uptake in the region of the pancreatic head without locoregional nodal or distant metastatic disease. Fine needle aspiration of the mass was suggestive of poorly differentiated carcinoma. These findings prompted surgical consultation and a Whipple procedure was planned for resection of the possible pancreatic head mass. In 8/2006 surgical exploration revealed a retroperitoneal mass situated inferior to the uncinate process which extended to the infrarenal abdominal aorta. The mass demonstrated close involvement with the inferior vena cava and superior mesenteric vessels. Direct involvement of the pancreas and adrenals was not appreciated. Given the unusual location of the mass as well as its aortic proximity, resection was deferred.
A true cut biopsy was performed and sent for frozen as well as permanent section analysis. Histologic examination revealed a well-circumscribed neoplasm composed of