A 60-year-old male patient from an urban area of Kashmir (Asian) visited the Department of General Medicine of our institute with the chief complaints of severe lower-abdominal pain for the past eight months. The patient also complained of severe constipation, nausea, vomiting, anorexia, loss of appetite, abdominal cramps, incontinence of faeces and weight loss during the past four months. He experienced profuse bleeding from the rectum for the last month. Initial interviews with the patient revealed that the he was a heavy smoker and frequent user of noon-chai (Salt tea), meat and pickles. On examination the patient was found to be anemic. Digital rectal examination revealed an ulcero-infiltrative lesion with restricted mobility about 4 cm from the anal verge on the left lateral wall. A colonoscopy confirmed the rectal examination and biopsies taken at the time of the colonoscopy revealed squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) of basal cell type in the first histopathological examination. The report was re-confirmed by a second independent pathologist. A Contrast-Enhanced Computed Tomography (CECT) of the chest, abdomen and pelvis was also done but no lesions were found in any other site than the rectum. The lesion was without any fat stranding or lymphadenopathy. Furthermore, following the provisional diagnosis, the patient was referred to the Department of General Surgery for radical treatment, where he underwent LAR of the rectum using the standard technique of mesorectal excision (Figure ). The continuity of the gut was restored by a circular stapler for low colorectal anastomosis with formation of a colonic pouch. The colonic pouch takes over the function of rectal reservoir which is lost after excision of the middle and lower rectum. Microscopic examination of the resected lesion demonstrated a 2.5 cm × 3 cm SCC tumor of the rectum infiltrating the serosa. The margins of the excised tissue were found to be free of the tumor. However, four regional lymph nodes were also infiltrated by the metastatic SCC