We report a case of a 67-year-old aboriginal woman who was admitted to the rehabilitation ward. In March 2007, the patient underwent right femoral popliteal artery bypass surgery for occlusive peripheral vascular disease. Four months later, intermittent claudication recurred; she also complained of right leg pain at rest and developed ulceration of the right toes. The patient underwent right trans-tibial amputation in August 2007 because of ischemia and gangrene of the foot. This was followed by left superficial femoral artery stent placement in November 2007. Her ankle brachial pressure index was markedly reduced at 0.11 (normal, 0.95-1.2). Despite previous surgical treatment, her peripheral vascular disease progressed to gangrene of the right foot, thus necessitating the right trans-tibial amputation. The stump healing was initially delayed because of the wound infection, but eventually healed well. Her past medical history included a 61 pack-year smoking history, severe COPD, type 2 diabetes mellitus, hypertension, ischemic heart disease and a myocardial infarction three years ago treated with percutaneous coronary intervention and stent placement. The patient had a supportive husband, lived in a wheelchair-accessible bi-level home and was using a wheelchair for ambulating long distances and was mobilized with a walker for short distances.
Her physical examination revealed a well-oriented individual with normal vital signs and oxygen saturation at 88% on room air. Her neurological and cardiac examinations were normal. The respiratory examination showed hyperinflation of the thorax, decreased air entry to the lung bases bilaterally and occasional expiratory wheezing. Her residual limb length was 5 cm from the tibial tuberosity and had a 15-degree flexion contracture. The incision line was well healed with an adherent scar. Her left lower extremity showed some atrophic changes: loss of hair with absent dorsalis pedis and posterior tibial pulses were noted. The popliteal pulse was palpable but weak. General strength was graded 4 to 4+ out of a maximum of 5 in both upper and left lower extremities. Laboratory investigations revealed