The patient was a 29-year old pregnant woman who previously delivered through caesarean sections two healthy full term infants. Her past medical history was significant for gastroesophageal reflux disease, asthma, obesity, gallstones, and smoking. Ultrasound at 14-week gestation revealed a right ovarian cyst. At 33-week gestation, the patient presented with preterm labor. With repeat caesarean section, a healthy female infant was delivered. At the time of caesarean section, a right salpingo-oophorectomy was performed after approximately 2 liters of fluid were drained from the ovarian cyst.
We received the specimen for intraoperative consultation. Gross inspection revealed a cystic lesion measuring 14 × 11 × 9 cm. The external surface was maroon and smooth with prominent vascular markings. Sectioning showed a unilocular cyst filled with brownish mucoid fluid. The cyst wall measured from 0.5 cm to 1.0 cm in thickness and showed severe edema. The inner surface of the cyst was flat and displayed scattered patches of hemorrhage but no solid or papillary tumor was identified. Attached to the cyst was a residual normal appearing ovary measuring 3 × 2.5 × 1.5 cm and an unremarkable segment of fallopian tube measuring 3 × 0.5 cm. The gross findings indicated a benign ovarian cyst, and thus no frozen section was performed.
On microscopic examination, the cyst was lined by one to several layers of luteinized cells that exhibited abundant eosinophilic cytoplasm with focal vacuolization. Most nuclei were small and round but focal nuclei were irregular and enlarged (Figure ). No mitosis was identified. The outer cyst wall consisted of edematous fibrous tissue and scattered nests of luteinized cells that morphologically resembled the cyst lining cells (Figure ). Special stain showed reticulin fibers surrounding large nests of luteinized cells in the cyst lining (Figure ) and in the outer cyst wall. Remnant ovarian tissue showed a corpus luteum and multiple cystic follicles. The segment of fallopian