Three consecutive patients (two men aged 51 and 56 years and one woman aged 46 years), of Caucasian ethnicity, were treated with BAE in a tertiary academic reference center for spontaneous acute massive hemoptysis. All three were active smokers with a mean smoking habit of 50 ± 29 pack years. None had any history of chronic illness, pulmonary or otherwise. All three patients exhibited severe hemoptysis, ranging from 300 to 700 mL/day, with multiple episodes. They also had hypoxemia, anemia and low blood pressure. They were admitted to the intensive care unit for close monitoring and treatment.
Two of our patients received blood transfusions because of a rapid fall in hemoglobin levels (e.g. patient 1 had a hemoglobin level of 15.2% on admission, which had dropped to 8.7% two days later) and fear of severe hemodynamic instability,. All three of our patients were managed according to a standard hemoptysis protocol. They underwent emergency bronchoscopy and computed tomography (CT) of the thorax to identify the site of bleeding. The bronchoscopy did not allow identification of the bleeding lobe or any other significant abnormality in any of our patients. Blood trails and clots were seen in both the left and right bronchial systems, but provided no conclusive evidence as to the origin of bleeding. A tuberculin skin test and Ziehl-Neelsen examination of sputum indicated that our patients were negative for tuberculosis, and bronchial lavage cytology was negative for malignancy. The CT scan of one patient showed some degree of centrilobular emphysema. In all three cases, 'ground glass' attenuation consistent with hemorrhagic debris was found in both lungs, with predominance of one side or the other in each case. At that point, surgical management was not deemed feasible because the exact bleeding lobe could not be identified.
The next step was bronchial angiography followed by embolization. Under local anesthesia, the common femoral artery was percutaneously punctured, and a 5F introduction sheath was inserted. A flush catheter was advanced into the upper part