A 27-year-old male presented with a 1-day history of intermittent gross painless hematuria. His past medical history included herniated lumbosacral disk with radiculopathy, otherwise unremarkable. Social history included current smoking, 6 pack/year, and occasional EtOH. The patient was single and had no children; family history was negative for genitourinary malignancies. Physical examination was unremarkable with BMI 23 and BP 120/86 and no prescribed medicines or drug use. Laboratory tests showed normal CBC, normal coagulation profile, and normal renal function.
Axial, contrast-enhanced CT demonstrated a centrally located, 4 x 4 x 4.6 cm, lobulated mass invading the renal vein and extending into the lumen of the infrahepatic inferior vena cava (). CT angiography of the chest showed no evidence of detectable pulmonary emboli and bone scan was negative for metastases.
Right radical nephrectomy, partial adrenalectomy, inferior vena cava tumor thrombectomy (infrahepatic), and extended retroperitoneal lymphadenectomy were performed; flexible cystoscopy performed during this surgery showed a bulbar urethral stricture (not clinically significant) and otherwise normal bladder. The intravascular tumor pedicle was easily removed intact from the vein lumen by pulling.
Gross examination of the nephrectomy specimen demonstrated a centrally located tumor with no gross invasion of adjacent tissue but with the pedicle extending into the inferior vena cava (). Grossly, the tumor pedicle had a smooth surface and no attachment to the renal vein. Grossly, the mass was partially cystic with variably sized cysts with a smooth lining. The intervening stroma formed grossly discernible nodules of variable thickness. No tumor necrosis was grossly apparent. The lesion appeared to be well demarcated with no invasion of adjacent kidney parenchyma.
Microscopically, the tumor was well demarcated with an elongated pedicle bulging into the renal pelvis and renal vein and a biphasic morphology with spindle cell stroma and a benign epithelial monolayer lining the cystic spaces (). The stromal component was composed of uniform spindle cells without cellular atypia,