A 51-year-old man with history of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) and cigarette smoking presented with a shortness of breath, chronic pneumonia and empyema involving the right side of his chest. Soon after admission his condition deteriorated developing type-2 respiratory failure necessitating intubation and commencement of mechanical ventilation. Patient required positive end-expiratory pressure (PEEP) of 10 mmHg and 80% fraction of inspired oxygen (FiO2) to maintain the oxygen saturation of 91% with PCO2 (partial pressure of carbon dioxide) and PO2 (partial pressure of oxygen) of 7.1 and 8.2 kPa respectively. Following central line insertion a pneumothorax was noted on his chest radiograph. Under aseptic technique and blunt dissection a large bore ICD was inserted anterolaterally into the right chest preceded by the introduction of index finger and sweeping manoeuvre explained by the BTS guidelines []. It is imperative to appreciate that a diseased hyperventilated lung with a high PEEP is very prone to perforation by any instruments penetrating the chest wall and pleura. Shortly after tube thoracostomy the patient started to develop a large subcutaneous emphysema originating in the right moving towards the left side of the chest wall. Unfortunately his hypoxic state became worse requiring augmentation of mechanical ventilation. In the interim ICD was bubbling constantly. A CT scan of chest demonstrated that the ICD has penetrated the right upper lobe parenchyma (Figure ). As a result patient was urgently transferred to our institute for further management.
A new ICD was inserted with the same technique whilst the ventilator was briefly disconnected. When it was proved that the new ICD is in the appropriate position with a characteristic swing of column of water, the previous ICD was removed.
Subsequent chest CT scan revealed the right upper lobe laceration containing gas communicating with the anterior chest wall. This was accompanied by massive subcutaneous emphysema (Figure ).
Although following the new ICD both hypoxia and subcutaneous emphysema improved