A 30 year old non- smoker woman was admitted to our centre with a 10 year history of asthma like symptoms which did not respond to bronchodilators anymore.
Her chest radiograph showed bullous lesions, widespread infiltrates and volume reduction in the right lung. Computed tomography of the thorax demonstrated a mass lesion in the right main bronchus extending to the trachea as well as unilateral bullous emphysema with relatively thick septa, pleural thickness and reduced volume of the right hemi thorax ().
Fiberoptic bronchoscopy detected a pink large mass completely obstructing the lumen of right main bronchus and extending to a point close to carina 
(). Due to vascularised appearance of the mass and presumptive diagnosis of carcinoid tumor, biopsy was not attempted. Rigid bronchoscopy was performed under general anaesthesia and biopsy specimens were obtained.
Histopathologic examination revealed that immediately beneath the intact pseudostratified ciliated columnar epithelium with some focal squamous metaplesia, the neoplasm composed of bundles and whorls of spindle shaped cells with monomorphous fusiform nuclei and acidophilic cytoplasms without cytonuclear atypia, mitotic figures or necrosis (). Also, sections of small blood vessels were observable. Immunohistochemically the tumor showed diffuse cytoplasmic reactivity for desmin while myogenin reactivity was negative (). Ultrasonography of the uterus did not find any abnormality. On the basis of morphological and immunohistochemical findings the lesion was diagnosed as bronchial leiomyoma.
The patient was treated by endoscopic resection. However, the tumor was firm and large (3 centimeters in diameter) to remove through the rigid broncoscope despite great effort. In order to avoid tracheotomy and resection of a large portion of lung, a small cut was made in the neck area and the trachea was incised horizontally (tracheostomy). With cooperation of the anesthetics the tumor was brought to the incised region and removed by surgical forceps (). Then the incisions were repaired. The patient was discharged after receiving medical treatment for her lung infection and showed remarkable improvement both clinically