Patient 1 is a 65-year-old female with no smoking history and rare alcohol use who presented with a left tonsillar mass, confirmed as p16+ squamous cell carcinoma (SCC). She underwent left tonsillectomy via transoral robotic surgery and left neck dissection, revealing 2/21 involved lymph nodes (largest measuring 1.3 cm) without extracapsular extension. Lymphovascular invasion was indeterminate and perineural invasion was not identified. All deep and peripheral margins were free of invasive carcinoma. The closest margin from the left tonsil resection was 0.5 mm and was associated with a deep soft tissue margin on the lateral aspect. She was staged as pT2N2bM0.
The patient received adjuvant radiation therapy of 60 Gy to the tumor bed and ipsilateral neck and 54 Gy to the contralateral neck (Figure ). Subsequently, she experienced four sequential recurrences, including three endotracheal and one lung. Each was visualized on positron emission tomography/computed tomography (PET/CT) and pathologically confirmed as p16+ SCC, strongly suggesting metastases from the original tonsillar primary. (1) Thirteen months after the initial treatment (completion of adjuvant radiation therapy), she experienced a 7 mm endotracheal metastasis just inferior to the level of the thyroid isthmus, for which 4 cm of the trachea was resected with negative margins. (2) Two years after the initial treatment, she experienced a 6 mm endotracheal metastasis just inferior to the cricoid cartilage on the left and a 3 mm endotracheal metastasis just inferior to the right vocal cord, for which she received 66 Gy (Figure ), concurrently with cetuximab, after an incomplete resection. She also received 60 Gy and 54 Gy to a small portion of the trachea extending inferiorly. (3) Two and a half years after the initial treatment, she developed a 16 mm metastatic focus in the left lower lobe of the lung and malignant left hilar adenopathy, for which she received 60 Gy via proton beam therapy (Figure ), concurrently with carboplatin and