A 57-year-old HIV-negative aboriginal male was initially admitted with community-acquired pneumonia, which progressively worsened. A subsequent bronchoscopy with bronchoalveolar lavage revealed acid-fast bacilli on ziehl-neelsen staining. A subsequent CT chest demonstrated bilateral pulmonary infiltrates and cavitating lesions consistent with active pulmonary tuberculosis infection. His treatment was initiated with the standard 4-drug regimen: pyrazinamide, rifampin, ethambutol, and isoniazid (INH). Sputum mycobacterial TB culture demonstrated susceptibility to the 4-drug regimen.
During his admission to hospital, he developed diffuse abdominal pain with peritonitis on examination. He also developed tachycardia and hypotension, and an abdominal X-ray revealed free air under the diaphragm. Arrangements were made for emergent exploratory laparotomy in the operating room. Intraoperatively a single contiguous inflammatory mass was found in the left upper quadrant, which revealed a gangrenous necrotic splenic colon. A left hemicolectomy was preformed. This revealed a region of necrotic-appearing pancreatic tissue which was likely associated with the necrosis of the adjacent splenic colon. Further exploration of this inflammatory mass demonstrated particulate matter and peritoneal fluid and a large perforation in the posterior wall of the stomach, which was the initial insult. Peritoneal fluid mixed with enteric contents from the gastric perforation was sent for culture and was positive for mycobacterium tuberculosis. An intraoperative gastroscopy was preformed which identified an ulcer approximately 5–10 cm from the gastroesophageal junction. The patient hemodynamic status worsened in the operating room despite ongoing resuscitation and significant quantities of norepinephrine intravenously were needed. It was decided to stabilize the patient with a damage control laparotomy and take the patient to the intensive care unit rather than perform a definitive repair of the gastric perforation because of the severe hemodynamic instability. Drains surrounding the ulcer were placed and the skin closed. Plans were made to return to the operating room in 24 hours for definitive treatment if the patient's hemodynamic status improved.
The patient's condition stabilized in the intensive care unit,