A 42-year-old Caucasian woman was referred to our hospital for pain management by a neurologist specializing in the treatment of daily headaches. She had experienced daily intractable headaches since age 18 years. She also had chronic bilateral occipital neuralgia on the basis of the diagnostic criteria outlined in the second edition of The International Classification of Headache Disorders []. Her occipital neuralgia persisted for more than 15 days monthly and was distributed throughout the greater occipital nerves, beginning in the occipital region and radiating upward to the top of the head. When the occipital neuralgia occurred, her occipital area became very tender to palpation. Complete alleviation of her pain had been achieved for a limited time with diagnostic bilateral greater occipital nerve blocks.
Her medical history included NF-1, which was first diagnosed in childhood. Several neurofibromas had been removed from her sacrum 10 years previously, as well as many from her upper extremities. She also had had problems with depression, anxiety, alcohol consumption, and smoking. She has been a housewife throughout her adult life. With regard to her family medical history, her mother had died at 68 years of age as a result of heart disease, and her father was alive at 72 years of age with a history of cancer. An older sister has rheumatoid arthritis but not NF-1.
Before her referral to our service, she had undergone extensive medical management with biofeedback training, physical therapy, massage, acupuncture, and pharmacological management with narcotic and non-narcotic pain medications. Her medications included sustained-release morphine (30 mg every 12 hours), hydrocodone and acetaminophen (10 mg and 325 mg, respectively, every four to six hours), and pregabaline (75 mg every eight hours). More recently, she had undergone three greater occipital nerve blocks that resulted in complete pain resolution that lasted from two to three days. Because she required an ever-increasing dose of morphine for pain relief, and because she had responded to the occipital nerve blocks, she was considered