A 68-year-old woman was admitted to a private dental clinic in October 2009, complaining about cold tooth sensation in the region of left mandibular second premolar. Review of the patient's medical history revealed that since 2003, she had been taking 2.5 mg of methotrexate six times a week and 70 mg of Fosamax® (alendronate sodium) once a week for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis. Besides, she also reported steroids use during twenty years. The patient had no history of radiotherapy, infectious process or trauma in the maxillofacial region but did have a history of smoking.
During clinical examination a detachment of the marginal gingival (Figure ) associated with an increased probing depth value at the region of left mandibular second premolar (Figure ) was observed and was associated with a mild mobility without painful symptoms, purulent discharge and bone exposure. On periapical radiographic analysis, there was bone loss associated with osteosclerosis around the involved tooth (Figure ). At that time, mouth-rinsing with chlorhexidine 0.12% was prescribed and, after medical consensus, alendronate suspension was recommended. Furthermore, the serum C-terminal cross-linking telopeptide of collagen (CTX) test was solicited to evaluate the bone reabsorption status which revealed values of 33 pg/mL.
Two weeks later, during clinical examination, bone exposure was detected on the vestibular side of the left mandibular second premolar and on the disto-lingual side of the edentulous alveolar bone surrounded by inflamed soft tissue without evidence of purulent discharge or pain symptoms (Figure ). However, the lesions progressed very quickly and, the patient complained of painful symptoms and increased tooth mobility few days later. Bone necrosis associated with mucosa ulceration involving part of the jugal mucosa was also observed (Figure ). On periapical radiographic analysis, it was observed increased bone loss around the involved tooth (Figure ) which was confirmed on computed tomography (CT) since an osteolysis area was observed around the left