A 69-year-old Italian Caucasian woman arrived at the emergency department presenting with sudden onset of lower left limb pain. The patient reported no dyspnea, chest pain, weight loss, nausea, abdominal pain, hematuria, myalgias, or arthralgias. Her medical history was notable for type 2 diabetes mellitus and chronic atrial fibrillation. She had no history of coronary heart disease, hypertension, or dyslipidemia, and she did not smoke. Her medications included digoxin and repaglinide, but not anti-thrombotic drugs.
The patient's physical examination revealed that she appeared to be in good condition, but she reported discomfort due to pain in the left leg. The patient's blood pressure was 125/85 mmHg, and her heart rate was 80 beats/minute and irregularly irregular. Her respiratory rate was 22 breaths/minute, her oxygen saturation was 98% while the patient was breathing ambient air, and her body temperature was 36°C.
In her left leg, femoral, popliteal, and tibial pulses were absent, with pale and cool feet and with slow capillary return. Her right leg was absent of tibial pulse. Her Ankle Brachial Pressure Index was 0 on the left and 0.4 on the right. The motor and sensory functions of the legs were preserved.
A transesophageal echocardiogram revealed enlargement of the left atrium with a thrombus in its appendange and enlargement of the right atrium. She had no signs of atrial shunt or detectable atherosclerosis in the proximal aorta. A diagnosis of embolizing non-valvular atrial fibrillation was confirmed, and the patient underwent lower left limb Fogarty thromboembolectomy, that successfully restored distal blood flow. The patient was discharged after two days to a low molecular weight heparin regimen as bridging therapy for a warfarin regimen.
After one week, the patient returned to the emergency department with acute ischemic symptoms in her left leg. Angiography was performed, which showed an apparently normal wall of the abdominal aorta, right iliac and femoral artery