A non-smoker female, aged 45 years, reported with a moderately large growth in the mandibular anterior region. Medical history was insignificant. The patient was from low socioeconomic class. History revealed that a small nodule appeared 5 months ago, which was painless and caused spacing in the lower anterior teeth.
On examination, the patient’s lips were incompetent. Lower lip approximation was difficult due to large swelling protruding from the lower gingival region. Oral hygiene was considerably poor, which may be due to poor oral hygiene awareness, since oral hygiene is inversely related to socioeconomic class.
There was a pale pink swelling in the mandibular right central and lateral incisor region. The surface was nodular and irregular, with no ulceration. The growth measured 2.2 × 3.0 cm in size and was extending out from labial gingiva, displacing the central, lateral incisors and canine teeth, and extended lingually. The nodular growth extension in lingual was slightly smaller than that in the labial []. The growth was considerably hard in consistency, sessile and not easily movable.
Intraoral periapical radiograph was taken, which revealed erosion of the crest of bone. The possible reason of crestal bone erosion in the area may be long-standing plaque-induced inflammation and constant pressure of the growth. Clinical appearance and consistency was of a hard fibrous growth, which therefore led to a provisional diagnosis of peripheral calcifying fibroma or peripheral odontogenic fibroma (POdF).
Phase 1 periodontal treatment was carried out. Consent for the surgical procedure was obtained from the patient after proper counseling.
Under local anesthesia, the whole growth was excised and the underlying surface was thoroughly curetted up to deepest possible tissue and crestal osteoplasty was done. After controlling bleeding, periodontal dressing was applied and the patient was discharged with prescription of pain killer and chlorhexidine mouth wash. Follow-up visits were arranged after 1 week, followed by 1 month, 3 months, 6 months and 1 year