This is a case of a 72-year-old Taiwanese man who was diagnosed as having metastatic adenocarcinoma of the lung complicated by malignant right pleural effusion 2 years ago. He initially presented with weight loss, worsening cough, and worsening exertional shortness of breath for 3 months prior to presentation. He had a past medical history of type 2 diabetes mellitus, which was well controlled on insulin. He was an ex-smoker of tobacco with a tobacco smoking history of one pack a day for 10 years but he quit smoking tobacco 20 years ago. He also had a family history of non-Hodgkin lymphoma in his brother and breast cancer in his niece. He is retired and lives with his wife.
On examination, he was afebrile with heart rate of 70 beats/minute and with blood pressure (BP) of 130/80 mmHg. He appeared moderately built and was not in any respiratory distress. His respiratory examination was significant for dullness over the right middle and lower chest on percussion and was associated with reduced breath sounds on auscultation. His cardiovascular, abdominal, and neurological examinations were non-contributory.
His initial computed tomography (CT) scans demonstrated a middle lobe mass in his right lung and right lung pleural effusion. A positron emission tomography (PET) scan showed an increased uptake in the middle lobe mass in his right lung, subcarinal lymph nodes, several bilateral subcentimeter pulmonary nodules, and diffuse osseous metastasis. There was no evidence of brain metastasis as evidenced by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of his brain. He then had thoracentesis and pleural biopsy with the placement of a pleural catheter. The pleural biopsy was consistent with adenocarcinoma with an acinar pattern. Immunohistochemistry of the tumor cells was positive for cytokeratin (CK) 7, thyroid transcription factor 1 (TTF-1), and negative for CK20. A fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) showed evidence of ALK mutation (33% of cells positive for rearrangement). His final