An 87-year-old Caucasian British woman presented to our emergency department with a three-day history of shortness of breath, pyrexia and non-productive cough. Her only significant past medical history was well controlled hypertension. She was independent in her daily activities, did not smoke cigarettes and reported a good cardiorespiratory reserve prior to the onset of symptoms. The diagnosis of community-acquired multilobar pneumonia was made with a CURB-65 score of three. She was admitted to the high dependency unit with type 1 respiratory failure and a high alveolar-arterial oxygen gradient. She received intravenous antibiotics (piperacillin/tazobactam and erythromycin) and non-invasive high-flow continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP). By the fourth day, our patient had deteriorated, with a chest radiograph showing bilateral alveolar and interstitial infiltrates and a ratio of partial pressure of arterial oxygen to the fraction of inspired oxygen (PaO2/FiO2) of < 26.6 kPa, which required invasive ventilation. The criteria for ARDS were met and the cause was thought to be a combination of the direct pneumonic pulmonary injury and extrapulmonary severe sepsis. With protective lung ventilation, low dose methylprednisolone, antibiotic therapy and a negative fluid balance, gradual improvement was made; over the following five days respiratory parameters weaned sufficiently to allow an uncomplicated percutaneous tracheostomy to be performed. On day 10, a period of desaturation required recruitment maneuvers with a Mapleson C circuit that resulted in notable surgical emphysema. The cause was thought to be a tracheal injury sustained at the time of tracheostomy insertion. An adjustable flange tube was positioned under bronchscopic guidance just proximal to the carina in an attempt to limit any further tracking of air through the potential tracheal defect. Despite these measures, a high alveolar-arterial oxygen gradient and peak airway pressures persisted. A chest radiograph showed more homogenous central pulmonary alveolar shadowing. An upper airway bronchoscopy showed no obvious tracheal wall injury and computed tomography (CT) of her chest showed extensive surgical emphysema