A 54-year-old white male presented to the Emergency Department with complaints of progressive dyspnea and chest pain that had started simultaneously with acute onset 10 h before arrival. He stated the chest pain started while going from a seated to standing position. The pain was substernal and sharp with epigastric radiation initally. The pain was also noted to be worse with movement, and although it was still present, it had subsequently waned since the initial symptom onset. His dyspnea started immediately after the onset of chest pain and was worse with exertion. At presentation, he had progressed to the point of breathlessness, prompting his ED visit. Review of systems revealed no nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, fevers, or recent cough or congestion, as well as no similar episodes of pain or history of coronary artery disease, heart failure, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, gastro-esophageal reflux disease, or GI bleeding episodes.
His past medical history was significant for osteoarthritis and benign prostatic hypertrophy, and he denied any prior surgery. His medications included ibuprofen (800 mg three times a day with meals), which he has taken routinely over the past month. Of note, he had smoked a pack of cigarettes per day for the past 40 years and claimed only occasional alcohol usage.
Physical examination revealed an obese, ashen colored male in obvious respiratory distress. Vital signs were temperature of 36.4°C (97.5°F), heart rate 118, respiratory rate 36, oxygen saturation 77% on room air, and blood pressure 151/88 mmHg. The patient was alert, oriented and in obvious discomfort. His cardiovascular examination was remarkable for tachycardia, with regular and strong distal pulses in all four extremities. Pulmonary evaluation demonstrated clear breath sounds in the upper and lower lung fields, with diminished volume in the bases. His abdomen was soft and mildly distended with slight but diffuse tenderness to soft touch and percussion without tympany or guarding. Stool was positive for occult blood. A bedside abdominal