A 67-year-old Caucasian man presented to our hospital after an accident and emergency with a history of five hours of sudden-onset lower abdominal pain. Nine months previously he had been admitted to our hospital with a stroke due to vertebral artery dissection. He developed acute urinary retention at the time, with a residual of 550 mL of urine. He was unable to sense normal bladder filling until he experienced the pain of bladder over-distension. Previous to this he had had no lower urinary tract symptoms. His urological history included an incidental finding of an 11 mm mass upon CT in June 2009 that raised clinical suspicions of a renal cell carcinoma that was under active surveillance. His other pertinent medical history included a left inguinal hernia repair in 2008 that was initiated by using a totally extra-peritoneal approach but was converted to an open repair because of pneumoperitoneum. The patient was a recent ex-smoker, had no significant family history of urological disease, and lived independently. He was taking latanoprost and prednisolone eyedrops.
His digital rectal examination revealed a moderately enlarged prostate, and a prostate-specific antigen test returned values within normal age-related limits. He underwent anti-coagulation with warfarin as treatment for the stroke and fitted with a long-term urinary catheter that was left on free drainage.
Four months after he was fitted with the long-term catheter he had an episode of frank hematuria upon a routine catheter change. A cystoscopy was subsequently performed, which showed edematous urothelium but no focal lesions, as well as an open prostatic fossa. A trial without catheter was performed to determine whether his bladder function had recovered. This resulted in the patient's going back into urinary retention with abdominal pain. Re-catheterization drained 500 mL of urine. The catheter was replaced, and the patient was discharged with an out-patient appointment to discuss future management options.
In the interim, the patient presented to the emergency department with acute-onset lower abdominal pain. This