A 62-year-old Caucasian male patient was admitted for right total shoulder replacement for an arthritic shoulder. He was on treatment with non-steroidal anti-inflammatory medication for pain relief, a thiazide diuretic, calcium channel blocker and beta blockers for hypertension, and low dose aspirin for cardioprotection. There was a family history of deep vein thrombosis and pulmonary embolism. He was a non-smoker and did not consume alcohol. His systemic examination, routine pre-operative blood investigations and ECG were normal. He was accepted for the elective procedure under the ASA 2 category.
The operation was performed under general anesthesia in the beach chair position. There were no intra-operative complications. Following the surgery, the patient was prescribed opioid analgesics for pain control and a low molecular weight heparin for thromboprophylaxis, in view of the strong family history of deep vein thrombosis. For comfort the operated arm was supported in a sling, with gentle assisted exercises.
On the second post-operative day the patient was mobilizing well but was drowsy and confused; GCS was 15 with no localizing signs and his vital parameters were normal. Post-operative blood parameters were normal except for low sodium (Table ). Normal saline infusion was prescribed for correction of hyponatremia.
On the third post-operative day, the patient had a high temperature and the surgical wound appeared inflamed but there was no discharge. Blood samples were sterile on culture. Heparin thromboprophylaxis was discontinued and mechanical thromboprophylactic measures were instituted.
Over the next 48 hours, the patient complained of increasing bilateral frontal headaches with onset of binocular diplopia on the fifth post-operative day which was closely followed by increased urinary output, worsening confusion and drowsiness. The patient was transferred to the acute medical unit for further evaluation and management.
In the acute medical unit, the patient continued to be drowsy but oriented. His vital observations were normal. The GCS was 13 with no neck stiffness or photophobia. His speech was normal with