A 50-year-old Japanese woman with the chief complaint of chest pain was examined at a local hospital. A chest radiograph revealed a giant tumor in the right lower lung field, and the patient was referred to our department. The patient had no pertinent personal or family history, and had never smoked. Respiratory sounds in the right lower lung field were diminished, but no other abnormalities were detected on physical examination. Respiratory function tests revealed a vital capacity (VC) of 1,470 mL and a percent predicted VC of 46.7%, indicative of restrictive pulmonary disease. No abnormalities were identified on blood biochemistry. A plaine chest x-ray (Figure ) showed a giant tumor shadow measuring 15 × 13 cm in the right lower lung field, and chest computed tomography (Figure ) showed a solid tumor measuring 15 × 10 × 8 cm in the right thoracic cavity. The tumor showed a clear borders and internal calcification, and was found todisplace the diaphragm downward and the heart to the left. In addition, on chest magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) (Figure ), the tumor was visualized as an isointensity relative to the skeletal muscle on T1-weighted images, while on T2-weighted images, partial inclusion of weak signals hypointensity of moderate signal strength. Moreover, diffusion-weighted imaging revealed slightly heterogeneous signal hyperintensity, but no findings suggestive of degeneration or necrosis. A fibrous septum was found within the tumor, which showed a trabecular growth pattern, which led to the diagnosis of SFT, and surgery was performed. A small, the sixth intercostal video-assisted thoracotomy was performed, and the tumor was found to be slightly adherent to the diaphragm, mediastinal pleura, and lower lobe of the right lung. However, the tumor could be relatively easily dissected from these organs and removed. No continuity with normal thymic tissue was seen. Intraoperative rapid pathological diagnosis indicated a thymoma or lymphoma, and the surgery was terminated. The excised specimen (Figure ) showed a