In May 1975, a 22-year-old Asian male person was helping to lift a beam with his co-workers, when the whole load of the beam and bar together struck against his left shoulder. He felt severe pain locally and developed complete tetraplegia at C-4 level. This person had been managing neuropathic bladder by indwelling urethral catheter size 12 French. Over a period of time, he developed erosion of urethra because of indwelling urethral catheter. Therefore, suprapubic cystostomy was performed in November 2008. Cystoscopy showed trabeculated bladder and no tumour was visible.
This person was never a smoker and was not a second-hand smoker. On 28 December 2009, this person started passing blood in urine. Ultrasound examination of urinary tract, performed on 29 December 2009, revealed right kidney measuring 10.3 cm and left kidney measuring 9.6 cm. There was mild right hydronephrosis and slight dilatation of the left collecting system. No renal calculi were seen. The outline of urinary bladder was normal with suprapubic catheter in situ.
In April 2009, flexible cystoscopy was performed through suprapubic cystostomy track, as false passages in urethra prevented insertion of cystoscope through urethra. Reddened areas were noted in the dome and two biopsies were taken. Histological sections were examined at multiple levels. Mild, active, chronic inflammatory cell infiltrate was seen (Figure ). A fragment in part showed squamous metaplasia of surface epithelium. Towards one edge, surface urothelium showed mild nuclear enlargement and no staining for cytokeratin 20 was observed. This most likely represented inflammatory or reactive atypia rather than genuine dysplasia. There was no evidence of carcinoma-in-situ.
This patient continued to pass blood in urine. Therefore, a sample of urine was sent for cytology. Cytology revealed a very cellular specimen containing numerous neutrophil polymorphs together with scattered red blood cells. The transitional epithelial cells in this specimen showed mild nuclear enlargement, although the nuclear cytoplasmic ratio was not