Our patient was a 63-year-old Caucasian woman. She does not smoke cigarettes or drink alcohol. She measures 162.5 cm in height and weighs 66 kilograms. She had no significant family history. She was initially diagnosed with stage IIIA endometrial carcinoma for which she underwent a hysterectomy and bilateral salpingo ophorectomy followed by pelvic external beam radiation therapy. Two years later, she developed recurrent disease with widespread peritoneal carcinomatosis. An incidental mucinous carcinoma of the appendix was also found during surgical exploration. A central venous catheter port was placed and she received chemotherapy with 5-fluorouracil, leucovorin, and later, irinotecan, capecitabine and oxaliplatin. Her disease progressed despite multiple lines of chemotherapy. During the course of her cancer treatment, our patient also developed a series of complications which included tumor-related right ureteral obstruction requiring a nephrostomy placement, a sigmoid-vaginal fistula necessitating a colostomy with reversion of the ureteral stent, small bowel obstruction and ileostomy placement, short bowel syndrome and significant weight loss requiring total parenteral nutrition. Our patient recovered gradually and was able to receive subsequent courses of chemotherapy consisting of capecitabine, an oral chemotherapy agent classified as an antimetabolite, and oxaliplatin, an intravenous platinum-based chemotherapy agent classified as an alkylating agent. She developed predictable chemotherapy-related adverse events including diarrhea and hand-foot syndrome, but was able to continue her treatment intermittently. She started developing fever and tenderness at the site of her central venous catheter. Blood cultures were repeatedly negative. Our patient had not received antibiotics within the eight weeks prior to this event. She was not neutropenic. Laboratory results reflected a white blood cell (WBC) count of 12,100 cells/μL, with 87% neutrophils. Urine and stool examination revealed no abnormal findings. Liver and renal function tests and a chest X-ray were normal. Blood cultures taken from both the central venous catheter and peripheral vein were reported to have no growth after 96 hours incubation. She received empiric