A 59-year-old African-American man, with history of renal insufficiency, diabetes, hypertension, severe peripheral vascular occlusive disease, and a 100 pack-year tobacco history, was incidentally found to have an abnormal chest radiograph showing bilateral large lower lobe airspace opacities. Images taken three years previously were reviewed; the abnormalities were present at that time and had not changed in size significantly. The patient was lost to follow-up after that initial abnormal radiograph. He was experiencing only mild respiratory complaints of dyspnea on exertion and occasional dry cough. There were initially no symptoms of hemoptysis, fever, chills, weight loss or night sweats. No laboratory abnormalities were discovered. A history of diagnosed autoimmune disease, cancer or family history of lung disease was not present. A computed tomography (CT) scan of his chest confirmed dense consolidation with air bronchograms involving several segments of his bilateral lower lobes. No mediastinal lymphadenopathy was seen (see Figure ). Our patient underwent bronchoscopy with a transbronchial biopsy. The pathology of the biopsy specimen showed extranodal marginal zone B-cell lymphoma of BALT (see Figure and ). Further staging with positron emission tomography-CT and bone marrow biopsy revealed stage IV disease involving the subcarinal lymph nodes as well as the bone marrow.
Our patient was treated with single-agent rituximab and received four total doses, one dose given weekly. His clinical course remained stable with no evidence of progression and some improvement on CT imaging post-treatment. Our patient was seen every three months by his oncologist after his initial diagnosis. Two years after the diagnosis and treatment with rituximab our patient's clinical course worsened. He described new symptoms of worsening shortness of breath, weight loss, night sweats and fevers. He had elevated lactate dehydrogenase at 350IU/L, uric acid measuring 10.0 mg/dL and creatinine of 1.7 mg/dL. A repeat CT scan showed new air-filled areas within the right lower lobe mass, consistent with