In August 2010, a 29-year-old African American female who was 16 weeks pregnant presented to her primary care physician complaining of a fever of 103 degrees Fahrenheit, chills, pleuritic chest pain, shortness of breath and a non-productive cough for 2 days. Her pregnancy had been complicated by thyrotoxicosis and hyperemesis gravidarum requiring the placement of a peripherally inserted central venous catheter for total parenteral nutrition (TPN). The catheter had been placed approximately 11 days prior to the onset of her symptoms and she had received TPN since that time. The patient had no other significant medical history and was born in the United States with no recent travel or unusual food exposures. She did not smoke tobacco, drink alcohol or use illicit drugs. She was sexually active with a single male partner and had no history of sexually transmitted diseases. Her only sick contact was her father who had recently been treated for cellulitis. Her immunization history was unknown.
The patient was initially given a 5-day course of azithromycin. No laboratory studies or cultures were performed at the time. Three days later she returned to the emergency department of a community hospital complaining of persistent symptoms and mild vaginal spotting. She continued to have fevers, chills, pleuritic chest pain and dyspnea that had improved minimally with azithromycin.
A chest x-ray revealed diffuse, peripherally located reticulonodular infiltrates in both lung fields. Laboratory testing demonstrated an elevated white blood cell count (15,800 cells per cubic millimeter). The automated differential showed 90% neutrophils and 6% bands. A complete metabolic panel was within normal limits. Her albumin, a general marker of nutritional status, was within normal range. The patient was admitted to the hospital. Two sets of blood cultures, both peripheral and from her central venous catheter, were drawn at the time of admission. Both sets had bacterial growth (at 44 and 30 hours of incubation, respectively) with gram-positive cocci in