The patient was a 42-year-old woman admitted with debilitation and engorgement of both lower extremities. In past, she has undergone hysterectomy one year and six months ago because of hysteromyoma and was never found to have any heart diseases and relevant history. She was never found to have diabetes mellitus and denied relevant history of smoking. On examination, there was no abnormality in physical examination including cardiac auscultation etc. except for mild edema of both lower extremities. The laboratory examinations revealed normal results including tumor markers etc.
Transthoracic two-dimensional echocardiography showed normal parameters of the left and right ventricular wall thickness, size and function. The right atrium was mildly enlarged and filled with a medium echogenic oval tumor mass which is approximately 5.5 cm*2.3 cm (Figure ). The tumor mass originated from inferior vena cave, extended into right atrium (Figure ), moved back and forth through the tricuspid orifice into right ventricle. The tumor of right atrium and inferior vena cave has no stalk and has well-demarcated borders with the wall of right atrium and inferior vena cave (Figure ), which caused the tumor wandering within right atrium and inferior vena cave. The moderate tricuspid regurgitation was detected. In addition, abdominal ultrasound revealed a pelvic mass and continued medium echogenic oval tumor mass within right internal iliac vein, both common iliac vein, as well as the inferior vena cava (Figure ). Hence, the presumptive diagnosis of IVL was made by echocardiography and abdominal ultrasound.
The multi-detector-row spiral plain scan and contrast-enhanced computerized tomography of thoracic cavity, abdominal cavity and pelvic cavity, which was clearly visualized in the present case, revealed a lobulated pelvic mass, a low attenuation-filling continued defect was noted from an enlarged right internal iliac vein, both common iliac vein, as well as within the inferior vena cava, extending into the right atrium (Figure ,) as the features of echocardiography and abdominal ultrasound