A two-year-old Caucasian girl was brought to our Pediatric Emergency Department, referred from a pediatric outpatient center for unclear reasons after presenting with respiratory symptoms for two weeks. Her medical records showed that she had been diagnosed with neonatal withdrawal syndrome, which required long term treatment with phenobarbital. At the outpatient center, she had been diagnosed with repeated bronchiolitis and she needed health care services from a pediatric pulmonologist, who prescribed treatment with fluticasone. She had no other relevant medical or pathological background.
Medical records informed us that the child's mother had a medical history of substance-related disorders and she was receiving treatment for heroin dependence with methadone. No other pharmacological treatment was prescribed for cannabis and tobacco abuse.
When attending our department, the mother presented an unhealthy aspect and abnormal behavior. A physical examination of the child showed a minor asthma attack with respiratory difficulties and clinical features refractory to the outpatient bronchodilator treatment (salbutamol) over the past 15 days. The examination also revealed use of her accessory muscles for respiration, wheezing and bilateral hypoventilation. Her blood oxygen saturation level was 98% and cyanosis was not observed. Her vital signs revealed tachycardia and tachypnea without fever (her heart rate was 148 beats per minute, her respiratory rate, 60 breaths per minute and temperature 36°C). A neurological examination did not show a focal neurological deficit (15/15 Glasgow Score Scale) and the remainder of the physical examination was normal. The child received respiratory support and pharmacological treatment with gradual clinical improvement. Her blood cell count and serum biochemistry were normal. Under suspicion of exposure to drugs of abuse, urinary toxicology screening for commonly used drugs of abuse by cloned enzyme donor immunoassay (CEDIA, Microgenics, Barcelona, Spain) was done. Repeated urinary tests were positive for cocaine. Since urine toxicology was done in a pediatric emergency ward and speed was of paramount importance, the level of benzoylecgonine (BZG) in her urine was not quantified.