A 24-year-old male smoker presented to his GP with a 6-month history of right foot pain extending from the base of the first toe to the plantar surface of the foot. The pain was fluctuating in severity, did not correlate with specific activities, and was only partially relieved with common analgesics. The patient's work involved prolonged standing and heavy lifting. He had had bilateral pes planus and valgus heels during his childhood but had been asymptomatic for several years. Two abdominal nodules had been excised by a dermatologist two years prior to the onset of his presenting complaint. The histopathology report confirmed they were a fibroma and a leiomyoma of no particular clinical significance. Apart from a few other minor injuries, his past medical and surgical history was otherwise unremarkable.
The pain was attributed to the patient's previous pes planus deformity and was treated conservatively with common analgesia by the GP. Over the next three months the pain did not resolve and the patient was referred to the local orthopedics outpatient clinic. Extensive X-ray studies and blood tests including inflammatory and immunological markers were all normal, and the patient was referred to Orthotics for foot arch support.
Despite the arch support, the pain progressively worsened over the next 6 months. A foot MRI revealed mild, early degenerative 1st MTP joint changes with a small amount of fusion, but no other abnormalities. The diagnosis of reflex sympathetic dystrophy was also considered and supported by the findings of a radionuclide isotope scan. Although rocker soles and stronger analgesia (including oral morphine) were suggested, these failed to control the symptoms. Although this was followed by physiotherapy and multiple guanethidine blocks, symptoms remained uncontrolled and caused significant disability 18 months after the patient's first GP visit.
In the following weeks the patient developed progressive weight loss, fatigue, and muscle wasting below the knee. He noticed for the first time a firm round mass (approximately 15 cm) on the lower aspect of the posterior thigh. He was referred back to