A 57 year old quadriplegic male was brought to the hospital with complaints of presyncope, fall from his wheelchair and ongoing substernal chest pressure of a few hours duration. Past medical history included Non-ST elevation myocardial infarction (NSTEMI) with a drug eluting stent (DES) placed in the right coronary artery (RCA) three years ago, paroxysmal atrial fibrillation and quadriplegia secondary to trauma in a motor vehicular accident ten years ago. He was a non-smoker and a resident of a long term nursing care facility. His home medications included aspirin, metoprolol, simvastatin and warfarin. Initial vital signs were stable. Physical examination was unremarkable except for quadriplegia. Initial laboratory data revealed a normal hemogram and basic metabolic panel but an elevated troponin value of 0.2 ng/mL. Electrocardiogram (ECG) at admission () revealed normal sinus rhythm with subtle ST elevations and deep Q waves in inferior leads which were new changes as compared to his previous ECG (). He was initially started on optimal medical management for acute coronary syndrome including nitrates and heparin. A cardiac catheterization was initially deferred per patient's wishes and in view of his chronic medical comorbidities. He was free of his cardiac symptoms the following day of his admission and the follow-up troponin value was < 0.1 ng/mL. On Day 3, he experienced recurrent chest pains and telemetry revealed multiple episodes of rapid non-sustained ventricular arrhythmias and a few episodes of rapid paroxysmal atrial fibrillation. One of the episodes of severe chest pain was followed by transient syncopy and a tachyarrhythmia (noticed on telemetry) lasting for about 20 seconds with a ventricular rate of about 600 beats per minute, which gradually slowed over a few seconds to a rate of 300 beats per minute before spontaneous conversion to normal sinus rhythm (). Follow-up troponin value was 1 ng/mL. After an extensive discussion with the patient and his family, he agreed to an urgent cardiac