A 73-year-old man was admitted to our emergency department with complaining of repeated syncope in two days. Prodromal symptoms of light headache and diaphoresis prior to the episodes were told. He regained consciousness spontaneously followed by brief conscious loss without mental impairment. The events occurred on his toilet in the fist episode. The second event developed on the following day when he was sitting and watching television. With similar warming symptoms as light headache and diaphoresis, the brief loss of consciousness was followed by full recovery. He was otherwise well, and had no chest pain, shortness of breath, or palpitation before the episodes. He also experienced a recent unproductive cough, but not concomitant with syncope. He had neither systemic disease as hypertension nor medical history before and without medication used. He had a history of smoking for decades and quit for many years without drinking. His blood pressure (BP) was 118/72 mmHg and pulse rate was 64 beats/minute on arrival. No significant abnormalities were discovered at the time of physical examination of heart and lung. There was no abnormal finding in neurologic examination. Brain computed tomography (CT) was checked and the results showed normal study without vascular atherosclerosis change. His electrocardiogram (ECG) revealed sinus rhythm and unremarkable. Biochemical analysis demonstrated normal cardiac enzyme (troponin I, total creatine kinase and CK-myocardial isoenzyme) level. Chest radiography was checked and showed a soft tissue density mass at left upper lobe. There was prominent soft tissue density at left apex and left lower neck (). He was advised to be admitted to our hospital under the suspicion of pulmonary tumor. On the following day after admission, chest CT was arranged and performed. The results showed a 4.5 cm soft tissue density mass with heterogenous enhancement at left lower lobe near hilum with extensive lymphadenopathy at left hilum, left paraaortic, anterior mediastinum with left paratracheal extending to left lower neck. The lymph nodes caused obstruction of left upper lobe bronchus with right