A 39-year-old Caucasian man was referred to our emergency department due to a sudden loss of hot and cold sensation when taking a shower, followed by a progressive instability and weakness of his lower extremities. Our patient also complained of diplopia, dim vision and circumoral numbness. Our patient reported an upper respiratory tract infection for which he was being treated with an antibiotic (macrolide). Neurologic symptomatology began a few days later. His medical history was unremarkable apart from seasonal asthma. He used to smoke 20 cigarettes per day and drink alcohol only on social occasions. He was the father of two children. No high-risk sexual behavior was reported.
On physical examination, he had hot and cold temperature sensory disturbance under the T4 vertebrae level, symmetrically diminished muscle power mainly to his lower limbs, blurred vision and a loss of taste. Further neurological examination revealed paresis and diminished reflexes of his lower limbs; mainly the jerk ankle and patellar reflex. Cerebral pathology results following an MRI scan were negative. However, our patient reported a loss of balance, a failure to stand or walk and numbness. In summary, our patient showed progressive weakness of his lower limbs due to neuropathy, areflexia, sensory involvement and cerebella ataxia, and with the duration of the disease being less than four weeks, the required and some of the supportive diagnostic criteria for GBS were met. Other physical examinations were normal.
Two lumbar punctures were performed, the first on admittance and the second 14 days following commencement of the symptoms (Table ). The diagnostic tests are summarized chronologically in Table . Serology tests for neurotropic viruses were requested for differential diagnosis purposes. Hepatitis, human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) and varicella zoster virus (VZV) test results were negative, as were results for West Nile virus (WNV) with indirect enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) immunoglobulin G (IgG) and M antibody capture (MAC)-ELISA