A 28-year-old pregnant woman was found unconscious in bathroom of her house by her husband. At arrival in the ED, she had a Glasgow Coma Score of 3/15 and dilated sluggish pupils. Additionally, there were no heartbeats or respiration. Cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) was immediately instituted and cardiac monitoring revealed ventricular fibrillation. She was treated with 200 J of direct current energy delivered twice. Intravenous epinephrine (1 mg) was administered after the second rescue shock. Neither atropine nor antidysrhythmic agents were administered. After 2 minutes of CPR, her rhythm has restored to sinus rhythm. Advanced cardiac life support measures were initiated (such as controlled intravenous fluid support, administration of dopamine, adequate oxygenation, and support of respiration with bag ventilation) in ED. There was no tobacco, alcohol or illicit drug use in her history. Her husband stated that she had a brief episode of discomfort palpitations and shortness of breath three weeks prior to her cardiac arrest. However, there was no history of cardiac or respiratory disease. Transabdominal ultrasound confirmed 36 weeks pregnancy with fetal cardiac activity. Noncontrast cranial computerized tomography was nondiagnostic. Laboratory studies taken on admission and urine drug screen were not remarkable. A bedside emergency transthoracic echocardiogram (TTE) demonstrated moderate to severe mitral regurgitation with an estimated regurgitant fraction of 45% (). Additionally, there was no hypokinesis, effusion or ventricular dysfunction. During her emergency department course, the patient began to response from painful stimuli. Propofol was initiated for sedation. Three hours after admission to the ED, she was transferred to the ICU for optimal care. Support of respiration with mechanical ventilation and general supportive measures were provided in ICU. The clinical course of the patient was uneventful. She did not require vasopressors or antidysrhythmics during her ICU course. On the sixth hour of admission, she was declared hemodynamically stabilized and cesarean section was performed. Single male healthy newborn was delivered. Sedation was subsequently