A 54-year-old Caucasian woman presented to the emergency department (ED) of our institution with uncontrolled hypertension and new-onset seizures. Two weeks prior to this admission the patient's hypertensive medication had been switched in a tapered fashion from clonidine to lisinopril because of a reported intolerance in the form of general malaise, sinus headache and non-productive cough. Five days before presentation she had developed generalized headache, blurred vision and nausea, and she decided to visit her closest ED, an outside facility in Northwestern Massachusetts, which found her hypertensive with systolic blood pressure of 260 mmHg. At that time, she was treated with analgesics and parenteral antihypertensive medications, which led to partial improvement of her symptoms and subsequent discharge to her home in rural western Massachusetts. Twenty-four hours before her hospital admission, she again visited the ED of the same outside facility complaining of recurrent, severe headaches accompanied by blurred vision. Her blood pressure recorded at that time was 260/160 mmHg. She was again treated with intravenous narcotics and antihypertensive's; however, while being treated, she developed confusion, and the decision was made to transfer the patient to our hospital. En route to our hospital she had an episode of tonic-clonic seizure activity lasting three to four minutes. In our ED, she received a dose of 1000 mg intravenous fosphenytoin once upon arrival and was subsequently intubated for airway protection because of unresponsiveness. Her admission blood pressure was 194/115 mmHg, and she was given two doses of 10 mg of intravenous labetalol.
Her medical history was notable for hypertension, systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), end-stage renal disease (ESRD) secondary to lupus nephritis on daily ambulatory intermittent peritoneal dialysis, with a history of good dialysis compliance and blood pressure control. Her most recent peritoneal dialysis treatment had been the day preceding admission. She had also had a mechanical aortic valve replacement for a history of aortic stenosis and underwent chronic anticoagulation treatment. She was no longer