A 92-year-old man was referred to the department of oral and maxillofacial surgery on a two-week wait basis for assessment of an ulcer on the tongue (). History revealed that the ulcer had been present for two months, was painful and causing discomfort while swallowing. The patient had lost seven kilograms of weight in one month, and he attributed this to the inability to eat due to pain. He had no significant relevant medical history. Social history revealed that he had been a pipe smoker for many years and took moderate amounts of alcohol on a regular basis.
Clinical examination of the head and neck region revealed a 3 cm diameter indurated ulcer of the left posterior dorsum of the tongue. This ulcer was highly suspicious of malignancy. Examination of the neck revealed an ipsilateral solitary lymph node of 4 cm diameter in level 3 region. The patient was informed of the possible diagnosis of squamous cell carcinoma. He underwent urgent incisional biopsy under local anaesthesia, and the histopathology report was suggestive of an adenocarcinoma (). Additional immunohistochemistry performed on the specimen demonstrated that the adenocarcinoma expressed cytokeratin 20 but lacked cytokeratin 7. In addition, the large bowel marker CDX2 was positive, whereas the pulmonary marker TTF1, the thyroid marker, thyroglobulin, and the prostate marker, PSA, were all negative. This suggested that the presenting oral lesion was the first sign of a possible distant metastasis of a primary bowel carcinoma.
The patient underwent further investigations; chest X-ray, MRI head and neck, and CT chest and abdomen. The CT demonstrated a sigmoid carcinoma with local lymphadenopathy and also evidence of distant metastasis to right axillary, hepatic, intrapulmonary, retroperitoneal, brain, and bony disease to the thoracic vertebra. This patient was discussed in the head and neck multidisciplinary team meeting and subsequently referred to colorectal team for treatment. The colorectal team confirmed the presence of rectosigmoid tumour on colonoscopy that proved histologically to be a poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma. The patient was referred for palliation due to the extensive nature of his disease.