A 2-month old Caucasian male was admitted to the hospital due to right perihilar pneumonia with hyperaeration and three months later was diagnosed with chicken pox. He also presented with global delays, dysmorphic features including craniofacial asymmetry, apparently secondary to postural position, with flattening of the left occiput, cup-shaped external ears, broad nasal bridging and small upturned tip of the nose, smooth philtrum, umbilical hernia, undescended testes, lax abdominal muscles, overlapping toes, and broad and thickened hands and feet. He was subsequently referred for genetic and neurologic evaluation. Peripheral blood taken for chromosomal analysis revealed no abnormalities, including negative results for Fragile X syndrome. A computed tomography (CT) scan of the head revealed atrophic changes of the brain, with no hemorrhage or evidence of masses or recent infarction.
The child's mother reported an uncomplicated pregnancy and denied prenatal exposure to tobacco, alcohol, and drugs. The only medication taken during pregnancy was a suppository for nausea. She also reported no exposure to radiation and no illness during her pregnancy. The birth history was unremarkable, with 40-week gestation and normal spontaneous vaginal delivery. Prenatal history was uneventful with no infection, bleeding, or unusual event. The patient exhibited no jaundice or cyanosis at birth. There was no information about newborn screening for PKU, hypothyroidism, or galactosemia. No history to suggest consanguinity was reported by the parents and there was no family history to suggest birth defects or mental retardation. The affected child had a healthy 2.5-year-old female sibling.
The patient suffered from repeated respiratory infection over the next 4-5 months and had an adenoidectomy at ten months of age. He continued to demonstrate developmental delays, spasticity of the upper and lower extremities, and poor muscle tone. A neurology evaluation reported that the growth and developmental course did not support a progressive or degenerative condition. It was suggested that the overall developmental delay was the result