A 51-year-old African American female with a medical history significant for diabetes mellitus and NHL presented to the medical emergency room with complaints of dizziness for nearly 12 hours. The patient stated that she noticed the abrupt onset of dizziness while at rest, which she described as persistent and not related to changes in position. She denied any nausea, vomiting, headaches, fevers, chills, abdominal pain, and fatigue. She denied the use of any medications at home as her diabetes mellitus was diet controlled. She was recently diagnosed with NHL 2 months before, and was currently being evaluated by her oncologist for varying therapeutic options. She denied the use of any illicit drugs, tobacco, and alcohol. Family history was noncontributory, including the absence of any malignancy.
In the emergency room, the patient was lethargic, pale, and appeared to be in moderate distress. Vital signs recorded on initial examination revealed the presence of hypotension and tachycardia, with fluid resuscitation only modestly increasing the patient's systolic blood pressure to 80 mm Hg. Physical examination was remarkable for moderate abdominal distention with marked hepatosplenomegaly. There was no abdominal tenderness noted.
Complete blood count (CBC) was significant for hemoglobin of 6.1 g/dL, hematocrit of 19 percent, and a platelet count of 41,000/mm3. An emergent chest radiograph revealed the presence of an elevated right diaphragm, likely secondary to marked hepatosplenomegaly. Prior to the initiation of further diagnostic and therapeutic interventions, the patient was again noted to be hypotensive with a systolic blood pressure of 60 mm Hg. The patient was now minimally responsive with absent peripheral pulses, thus cardiopulmonary resuscitation was initiated. Despite numerous therapeutic interventions such as the administration of vasopressors, mechanical intubation, and other measures outlined in Advanced Cardiac Life Saving (ACLS) protocols, the patient expired.
An autopsy performed revealed a markedly enlarged spleen measuring 30 cm × 20 cm × 10 cm, weighing 64