A 57-year-old man with an extensive life-time history of sun exposure and long-term smoking was evaluated for a recurrent cutaneous chest wall keloid. The keloid initially developed secondary to a varicella zoster infection as a child. At age 9, the keloid was treated with low-dose external beam irradiation and essentially resolved. Many years later and over a period of eighteen months prior to clinician reevaluation in 2009, the lesion began to grow in size. Corticosteroid injections failed to induce regression and a punch biopsy was performed.
Pathology from the punch biopsy revealed a primary desmoplastic melanoma, at least 5.0 mm thick with positive margins arising within a keloid. The patient's review of systems revealed vague muscle and rib pains, right-sided headaches, abdominal pain, and a forty-five-pound weight loss. Staging workup was completed to investigate these symptoms and revealed no evidence of metastatic disease.
Clinically, it was impossible to differentiate keloid from desmoplastic melanoma. Thus, a two-stage surgical procedure was performed with initial resection of the primary site including the entire keloid with 2 cm margins and bilateral axillary sentinel node biopsy (Figures , , and ). Temporary coverage of the primary resection defect was performed with porcine dermal substitute (not pictured) to ensure a margin free resection prior to reconstruction, since it was difficult to determine how deep the melanoma had invaded macroscopically.
Final pathology revealed desmoplastic melanoma occurring in the keloid with clear radial margins and a deep margin within 0.1 cm of the resection (Figures , , and ). Thus, one week after the initial surgery, the patient returned to the operating room and a new deep margin was obtained, which was negative for malignancy. Bilateral sentinel lymph nodes were negative for metastasis. Partial thickness skin graft reconstruction was then performed to cover the previously created 145 cm2 defect. The partial thickness skin graft had a 100% take (