A 52-year-old female with history of hypertension, smoking, alcohol dependence, and coronary vascular disease with recent myocardial infarction was admitted due to acute change in mental status. The patient had a spontaneous intraventricular hemorrhage, and an emergency bedside ventriculostomy was performed. Her hospital course was marked by persistent fevers in spite of multiple negative blood, cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), and urinary cultures. She received empiric levofloxacin intravenously 750 mg daily and vancomycin 1 gram intravenously every 12 hours until day 9 of hospitalization. Her neurologic function steadily improved, and the ventriculostomy was discontinued on day 11. However, her CSF cultures on that day yielded coagulase-negative staphylococcal (CoNS) species. Vancomycin 1 gram and rifampin 600 mg intravenously were administered every 12 hours. On day 15, computerized tomography (CT) of the head demonstrated increased intraventricular hemorrhage requiring reinsertion of an external ventriculostomy. Repeated CSF analysis demonstrated elevated WBC (57 cells/mm3 and protein 149 mg/dL) with decreased glucose (67 mg/dL). CSF cultures yielded CoNS again. Cultures of CSF continued to yield CoNS for the next three days despite the addition of daptomycin intravenously at 10 mg/kg (dosed at actual body weight) daily. As a result, intraventricular daptomycin was added on day 18, 10 mg daily for the first two days and then every other day. Culture of CSF became sterile on day 25 following 7 days of daptomycin intravenous and intraventricular therapy in addition to continued administration of intravenous vancomycin and rifampin. The second ventriculostomy was discontinued on day 38 (as was rifampin administration). Intravenous daptomycin and vancomycin were discontinued on day 55 after 37 days of dual treatment. Mental status progressively improved during this time.
Daptomycin peak and trough levels in the CSF were measured on day 29, and day 30, respectively (correlating to day 10 following the start of intravenous and day 11 following the start of intraventricular daptomycin). The peak CSF level