The patient is a 32-month-old male with a history of asthma who had been born at 36 weeks gestation via an unremarkable induced vaginal delivery secondary to oligohydramnios, with a birth weight of 5 pounds 12 ounces. The patient's asthma history is significant for multiple emergency room visits and one prior non-PICU admission for an asthma exacerbation. His maintenance medical regimen includes daily inhaled corticosteroids and albuterol as needed. The patient lives with his mother, father, an older sister who is healthy, a maternal grandmother who smokes in the house, and a cat.
The patient presented to a nearby emergency room seven days prior to presentation with worsening respiratory distress in the context of two weeks of upper respiratory symptoms and diarrhea. On initial presentation at the nearby emergency room, he was diagnosed with bilateral pneumonia and treated as an outpatient with amoxicillin, azithromycin, oral steroids, and nebulized albuterol treatments. Four days after the initial emergency room visit, his respiratory symptoms progressed, necessitating emergency intubation and high frequency oscillatory ventilation at the outside hospital. The patient was positive for human metapneumovirus and had healthy appearing airways on bronchoscopy. After three days of progressive worsening on increased respiratory support, the patient was transferred to the JHH Pediatric Intensive Care Unit from an outside hospital and venovenous extracorporeal membrane oxygenation was initiated. Please refer to for the chest radiograph prior to ECMO initiation.
The patient was initially treated with vancomycin, piperacillin/tazobactam, and fluconazole for presumed superinfection in addition to the HMPV pneumonia. After the blood cultures were negative for bacteria, fungi, and viruses for 48 hours, vancomycin and fluconazole were discontinued. However, due to the severity of his illness and concern for bacterial suprainfection, he completed an 11-day course of piperacillin/tazobactam for presumptive pneumonia. Due to decreasing urine output and concern for fluid overload compromising his respiratory status, the patient was started on continuous