A 28-year-old man with no past medical history presented to the emergency department with a two-week history of severe “10-out-of-10” colicky epigastric pain with profound nausea, 15–20 episodes of vomiting daily, and decreased oral intake for fear of triggering these symptoms. He denied alcohol and tobacco use, but reported he had smoked two marijuana cigars (each containing approximately 1.5 grams marijuana bud) every day for the last ten years. As his symptoms of nausea, vomiting, and abdominal pain intensified, he self-medicated himself with increasing amounts of marijuana and his symptoms became increasingly intense. The patient reported that he initially got symptomatic relief with a hot shower, though as his symptoms intensified, he required increasingly longer bathing times that eventually progressed to the patient soaking himself in hot baths for hours each day. He stated that he had never experienced any of these symptoms in the past. In the emergency department, the patient's vital signs were within normal limits and his physical exam was significant only for minor tenderness to palpation in the epigastric region. The patient had no focal neurological deficits. The patient was admitted for intravenous fluid support, antiemetic therapy, and further evaluation.
The patient's medical evaluation revealed a complete blood count, basic metabolic profile, and hepatic profile that were within normal limits. An abdominal computerized tomography (CT) scan was negative for pathology, an EGD with biopsies showed only mild gastritis, and a gastric emptying study showed mildly delayed gastric emptying.
In this patient, initial symptomatic treatment with ondansetron and morphine was unable to keep the patient from having breakthrough episodes of nausea, vomiting, and epigastric pain. The patient was unable to tolerate even a clear liquid diet, and was extremely anxious about trying to increase or advance his oral intake given the painful episodes that food had triggered in the past. After administering 1 mg IV lorazepam, the patient improved at a remarkable