A 28-year-old female who smoked half a pack of cigarettes a day with no significant medical history was being investigated for abdominal pain. A CT scan was ordered, which revealed a large left adrenal mass adherent to the kidney. Preoperative investigations including hormonal studies to evaluate catecholamine excess by the assessment of plasma metanephrines, urinary catecholamines and a MIBG scintiscan were negative, ruling out pheochromocytoma. Urinary free cortisol and demonstration of a normal diurinal rhythm of cortisol secretion by the administration of the dexamethasone suppression test were also negative ruling out subclinical cortical functional tumors. The larger size of the mass was highly suspicious for malignancy; therefore an open surgical intervention was planned. At surgery, via a left thoracoabdominal incision an en-bloc resection of the left adrenal mass was carried out including left nephrectomy, partial diaphragmatic resection with reconstruction and placement of a left thoracostomy. Postoperatively, the only significant complication was an asymptomatic left-sided pneumothorax that resolved spontaneously upon removal of the chest tube. She was discharged with an outpatient referral to the Cancer Center in 6 weeks. No further postoperative information is available for review in the current health record system.
The gross specimen weighing 1,492 g consisted of the left kidney and adrenal gland, with portions of the diaphragm. A large 16.5 × 13.5 × 12.5 cm ragged, irregular, pale-tan rubbery multinodular mass with hemorrhage and necrosis was seen completely replacing the left adrenal gland with no residual normal tissue being identified. On microscopic examination, the tumor was surrounded by a pseudocapsule distinct from the adjacent renal parenchyma (Figure ) and composed of groups of pleomorphic cells (Figure ) with areas of necrosis, hemorrhage and perineural invasion (Figure ). Heterogeneity of the tumor was seen including tumor cells being arranged in sheets and storiform patterns with extensive fibrous spindled stroma in some areas (Figure ) and others with a myxoid background (F