A 65-year-old Hispanic female presented to emergency department (ED) with a 6-month history of right ear pain that did not respond to ciprodex and keflex. The patient described initial drainage of clear fluids which became serosanguineous over the last 3 months. The patient denied any history of smoking or alcohol abuse.
In the ED, otoscopic examination of the right ear showed that the external auditory canal was edematous with clear discharge and bulging of the tympanic membrane. The patient was found to have decreased sensation over the right side of the face in the second and third trigeminal region but normal sensation over the right forehead. She had right eye ptosis and paralysis. The patient was unable to protrude her tongue, and there appeared to be a facial droop over the right side.
A CT scan of her right inner ear and temporal bone showed opacification of the right external auditory canal and bony destructive changes of the anterior wall of the right external auditory canal, right tympanic and epitympanic spaces, and mastoid antrum. The CT also showed destructive changes of the anterior wall of the right external auditory canal, scutum wall of the right carotid canal and foramen lacerum, and wall of the right semicircular canal ().
A magnetic resonance imaging scan of the neck revealed extensive heterogeneous signal abnormality and enhancement centered about the right external auditory canal and middle ear region (). Similar abnormality and enhancement were noted in the right temporal bone extending into the carotid and parapharyngeal spaces. There was also an equivocal 9 × 7 mm fluid collection in the carotid space and associated dural enhancement in the sigmoid sinus. The patient was thought to have a severe otitis media and was treated with antibiotics and was to follow up with the ear, nose, and throat clinic as an outpatient.
However, the patient was readmitted again three weeks later with symptoms of nausea and vomiting and worsening of the right ear pain. On readmission, the patient was found to