An 81-year-old African-American male with past medical history of hypertension and diabetes was briefly lost follow up for 9 months. He presented to our primary care clinic for his routine follow-up examination with complaints of a progressively worsening infected right foot ulcer for over six months. Patient also admitted to having pain and foul smelling drainage from the ulcer. Patient denied any tobacco or alcohol use. Physical exam was unremarkable except for an ulcer on the plantar aspect on his right forefoot measuring 6 × 5 cm with an ulcerated area at the base of fourth and fifth metatarsal involving the interdigital cleft and extending to the forefoot (). The ulcer was necrotic, black with bleeding and minimal purulent drainage. The patient was started on oral antibiotics with local wound care and surgical consultation requested. Outpatient surgical evaluations revealed a black eschar with punctuate areas of bleeding after the removal of the eschar. The patient was admitted to the hospital for surgical debridement of the presumptive diabetic necrotic ulcer. Laboratory studies including C-reactive protein (CRP) were within normal limits. His hemoglobin A1C was 5.6% indicating excellent control of his diabetes. Radiographic studies of the foot did not show air in the soft tissue, bony involvement, or signs of osteomyelitis. In the operating room under careful examination, the edges of the lesion were irregular with hyperpigmentation highly suggestive of a malignancy. An excision biopsy with 2 mm margin was sent for frozen section and pathology evaluation. Pathologic diagnosis was acral lentiginous melanoma. The tumor had an ulcerated surface that permeated the papillary and reticular dermis without permeation of subcutaneous tissue, suggestive of a Clarke level 4 (Figures , , , and ). Maximum tumor thickness was 3.5 mm, and mitotic index was <1/mm2. A positron emission tomography/computed tomography (PET/CT) was negative for metastatic disease. A definitive procedure was subsequently performed that included en bloc left fourth and