A 32-year-old African American woman presented to the neurology clinic for followup, after having 4 episodes of cerebrovascular accidents (CVA) in the last 4 years. The cause for the CVA episodes had not been established despite extensive studies, including magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), echocardiogram with bubble study, CT angiography, carotid Doppler ultrasound, Holter monitoring, and after implementing secondary prevention measures with aspirin, statin, and blood pressure control. All of the episodes were associated with sudden left-sided weakness and dysarthria, lasting up to 2 hours in the first three episodes and 2 weeks in the last one, but they were self-limited, with complete resolution of symptoms afterwards. Due to the unclear diagnosis an MRI was ordered, which revealed high FLAIR and diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI) signal surrounding the frontal horns of the lateral ventricle; this was suggestive of an ischemic etiology versus vasculitis. The patient was admitted to the hospital for complete workup, seeking a definite diagnosis.
The patient had a prior medical history of hypertension treated with verapamil, and dyslipidemia treated with simvastatin, and she was taking aspirin 81 mg daily since her first episode of CVA. No history of oral or transdermal contraception. Review of systems revealed no history of bleeding or other thrombotic events in the past. She denied prolonged bleeding after dental procedures, menometrorrhagia, or pregnancy losses. No past surgical history. She denied alcohol, tobacco abuse, or illicit drug abuse. Her family and social history were noncontributory.
On admission, her physical examination showed a normotensive, afebrile patient, with no signs of bleeding or thrombosis, neurological symptoms, or focal deficits. Her initial complete blood count and comprehensive metabolic panel were revealed within normal limits.
Evaluation of coagulation times revealed a prolonged aPTT of 99.4 sec, with a normal PT of 11 sec. She was not on any anticoagulation therapy. Mixing studies were ordered. The aPTT was corrected to 30.