The patient was a 52-year-old female with a history of bipolar disorder and smoking who presented with idiopathic stocking-glove neuropathy. Prior to the onset of her symptoms she had undergone a C5-C6 anterior fusion for cervical radiculopathy. A complete rheumatologic workup to determine the cause of her neuropathy was negative. An electromyogram showed no evidence of radiculopathy or neuropathy. A cervical MRI revealed chronic flattening of the spinal cord, but the patient had no clinical evidence of myelopathy such as sensory or motor deficits on physical exam. Previous treatment strategies included unsuccessful carpel tunnel and trigger thumb release. On initial presentation her medications included methadone 10 mg twice daily and oxycodone 60 mg four times daily as needed; however, she continued to rate her pain as a 9 out of 10 in severity.
The patient was originally treated with a right stellate ganglion block containing ropivacaine and clonidine. This was performed under fluoroscopic guidance by injecting local anesthetic at the junction of the C6 uncinate process and vertebral body [], creating a sympathectomy to the head, neck, and upper extremities. This intervention resulted in complete symptom relief in her right upper extremity for two weeks. The patient then underwent left stellate ganglion block with similar results in her left-upper extremity.
Given the successful treatment of her upper extremity peripheral neuropathy with sympathetic blockade, a trial of lumbar sympathetic blockade was initiated in her lower extremities. Lumbar sympathetic blockade was performed by injection at the anterolateral surface of L2-L3 vertebral bodies []. Each side of the sympathetic blockade was separated by a time frame of approximately two weeks. Both lumbar sympathetic blocks produced symptom relief for approximately two weeks similar to the upper extremity blockade. These procedures were repeated after a two-month interval. At that time, she was still experiencing partial relief from the first series. She again remained completely pain free for several weeks following the injections.
As the pain partially returned, pregabalin was added to her medication regimen.