A 47-year-old male patient presented to a metropolitan hospital with a new onset of fever, headache, right-sided weakness, and dysphasia. His background included a history of paranoid schizophrenia and cannabis abuse. The patient strongly denied the use of injectable drugs. His only medication was longstanding depot risperidone injections. He was a smoker with no known allergies. A computerized tomography (CT) of the brain revealed a 2 × 3 cm mass in the medial left frontal lobe consistent with the diagnosis of a brain abscess. Initial biochemistry and a complete blood count were normal, including liver enzyme tests. Successful neurosurgical drainage of the brain abscess was undertaken in theatre. Cultures taken from the abscess material grew Streptococcus anginosus, and the patient was commenced onto treatment with benzyl penicillin, according to the sensitivities. Phenytoin was initiated as a prophylactic anticonvulsant at an initial dose of 300 mg nocte., increased to 500 mg over 2 weeks. Anticonvulsant therapies are individualized within the neurosurgery department according to consultant preference, but the prescribed regime was in keeping with the regional clinical protocol for enteral phenytoin administration. Levels were measured and found to be below the normal range (20 umol/L (normal range 40–80 umol/L)). A week following surgery, the patient was referred to a rehabilitation unit.
Three weeks after admission to the rehabilitation unit (day 27), the patient developed fever (38.4 degrees Celsius). Blood cultures were undertaken, a chest X-ray (CXR) ordered, and a CT scan of his brain repeated which showed a reduced abscess cavity compared to his previous study. A day later the patient developed erythema over his upper torso, malaise and rigors. On the recommendation of the general medical unit on take in the hospital, the patient was commenced on antibiotic therapy (vancomycin), and his biochemistry repeated. The results of the biochemistry revealed deranged liver enzymes () and an elevated CRP (