This 70-year-old male first presented in 1991 at the age of 49 for persistent cough. Detailed smoking history revealed that he had been smoking one pack a day since 1971 but had quit a few weeks before his presentation because of persistent cough. Clinical examination and laboratory studies did not show evidence of airway obstruction, gastroesophageal reflux, postnasal drip, or respiratory infection. Chest radiographs were reported to show left lower lung field opacity (Chest radiographs obtained in 1992, 1993, and 1997 films were archived and could not be reviewed by the authors. Information in the text is from radiology reports.) which remained unchanged on multiple films in 1992 and 1993. Cough subsided and this opacity was thought to be clinically insignificant. In 1997, during a routine visit, chest radiographs were repeated and showed, along with the left lower lobe opacity, right lower lobe opacity. Since the patient was asymptomatic, it was decided to follow him clinically. In 2001, the patient developed symptoms of pneumonia, and a computed chest tomography (CT) revealed nonspecific opacities in all lobes suggestive of bilateral consolidative process (The films from this CT were archived and could not be reviewed by the authors). No bullae were described. The patient also developed thrombocytopenia and was diagnosed with idiopathic thrombocytopenia purpura (ITP). His pulmonary symptoms were controlled with antibiotics and bronchodilators. The patient was discharged on bronchodilators, Danazol and systemic corticosteroids for the diagnoses of COPD and ITP. From 2001 to 2007 the patient had multiple episodes of fever, cough and dyspnea which were treated as pneumonias or COPD exacerbations, and he became oxygen dependent. In 2007, he presented with hemoptysis. Bronchoscopy with a BAL and a transbronchial biopsy showed mature lymphocytes. A lung biopsy through a video assisted thoracic surgery (VATS) procedure was performed and the results showed MALT lymphoma ().
Sections of intraparenchymal lymph nodes revealed complete effacement of normal nodular architecture by monotonous proliferation