A 50-year-old male presented with a history of left-sided chest pain for a few years that had been progressively worsening over the last 3 months. The pain was characterized as vague and intermittent, although there were some fluctuations in intensity. He had a gunshot wound to the left upper abdomen resulting in diaphragmatic and splenic rupture 30 years ago. He stated that his spleen had been removed at that time. Other medical history included chronic hepatitis C and a 30 pack-year history of smoking. His physical examination revealed several abdominal scars, but was otherwise unremarkable. Routine blood work demonstrated no significant laboratory abnormalities. A peripheral smear was not obtained. On presentation, his chest X-ray showed a large, ill-defined, clearly marginated mass along the left heart border on the posteroanterior view. In comparison, the chest radiograph obtained 1 year previously was reviewed, and the lesion was noted, in retrospect, to have been present at that time; it had obviously grown over the 12-month period between the two examinations (Figures A and B). Computed tomography (CT) of the chest with intravenous contrast showed a large, homogeneously enhanced mass of 13 × 3 × 8 cm extending from the level of the aortic arch inferiorly along the mediastinal contour into the left upper quadrant, corresponding to the lesion seen on the chest radiograph (Figure C). Technecium-99 m (99mTc) sulfur colloid scintigraphy was performed based on a high index of suspicion for splenosis given the patient’s trauma history and subsequent splenectomy. Thick linear uptake was present in the medial left hemithorax, corresponding to the mass on the chest CT, and was consistent with splenic tissue (Figure ). Although the diagnosis of intrathoracic splenosis was established, the patient was referred to the thoracic surgery service because of symptoms refractory to pain control with analgesia as well as the interval growth of the mass. Video-assisted thoracoscopic surgery (VATS) was attempted.