A 73-year-old man was referred to the ENT Department of the University Hospital of Larissa complaining of persistent hoarseness and slowly progressive dyspnea during the past year. The patient had undergone microlaryngoscopy with biopsies for a left vocal cord tumour nine years ago and his histology examination revealed hyperplasia of the surface epithelium, focal keratosis, slight chronic inflammation, and subepithelial scarring. He was a smoker with medical history of chronic renal failure, coronary artery disease, and diabetes. Endoscopic examination revealed a large nodular lesion along the left true vocal cord with impaired laryngeal mobility ipsilaterally. Chest X-ray was normal. MRI scan showed soft tissue fullness in the area of the left vocal cord (). No lymph node enlargement was found in the neck, while the rest ENT examination was unremarkable. Microlaryngoscopy under general anaesthesia confirmed the existence of the lesion on the left true vocal cord and the extent of it in the immediate subglottic area. Biopsy specimens were taken and on histological examination the patient diagnosed as having IPT; abundant myofibroblasts with scattered inflammatory cells were seen, cellular pleomorphism was demonstrated, and mitoses were absent. Immunohistochemically stromal cells were positive for vimentin, SMA, and calponine; CD34 and S100 were focally positive, while ALK1 staining and desmine resulted in negative reactions ( and ). The patient subsequently underwent a median vertical thyrotomy under general anaesthesia, after the airway was secured by a tracheotomy at the beginning of the procedure. The lesion was excised including some surrounding muscle fibres, which appeared to be involved. Grossly, the tumour was firmly attached to the left true vocal cord and presented to be nodular, measuring in diameter 1.7 × 1.1 × 0.7 cm (). Prophylactic perioperative antibiotics were administered preoperatively and continued for five days postoperatively. The patient was decanulated on the third postoperative day and had an uneventful recovery. Two months postoperatively, the left true vocal cord had