A 73-year-old male presented to Urology Specialists of the Lehigh Valley in October 2010 with a right renal pelvis filling defect, potentially a urothelial carcinoma. The lesion was detected by CT scan (Figure A) performed for unrelated reasons and had not been visible on prior CT scans.
The patient had smoked for 20 years but had stopped smoking approximately 10 years prior. He previously had non-small cell lung cancer that was treated with radiation and chemotherapy in 2001–2002 and was in remission. In 2001–2002 he had a coronary artery bypass graft and an abdominal aortic aneurysm repaired. The patient was asymptomatic from these conditions at the time of presentation.
A physical examination was normal. The laboratory values were within normal limits. The patient had no urinary complaints. Urine cytology and cystoscopy were negative. Right retrograde pyelogram disclosed a complete ureteral duplication. Complete ureteropyeloscopy was not possible due to the narrow ureters. Retrograde pyelogram of the lower pole was performed and was normal. It was not possible to perform a retrograde pyelogram of the upper pole unit because the ureter was only about 1 mm in diameter, where a normal ureter is 3–4 mm in diameter. The instruments used in our practice are sized and scaled for a normal ureter and not for this small ancillary ureter. An attempted pyelogram was unsuccessful as the contrast did not fill the ureter or renal pelvis.
Approximately 6-months following initial urological evaluation, CT scan confirmed the presence of the mass which now appeared larger (Figure B). These findings were consistent with urothelial carcinoma of the renal pelvis, although urine cytology was again negative.
Prior to initiating more invasive diagnostic methods, a real-time PCR-based genetic assay was used to determine if the patient’s urine contained DNA that carried FGFR3 mutations in exons 7, 10, or 15 []. This assay has 99.9% specificity for urothelial carcinoma. A mutation was detected in exon 10 (Y375