The patient in this case is a 70-year-old female diagnosed with multiple brain metastases from primary small-cell carcinoma of the lung. She reported a significant smoking history (100 packs per year) with COPD and later developed a small-cell carcinoma of the upper lobe of the left lung. Following her diagnosis, she underwent a left upper lobe lobectomy and tolerated the surgery well. Spread to the mediastinal and hilar nodes was not observed at that time. However, tumor evidence was seen in the soft tissues surrounding the bronchial resection margin, and a single involved lymph node was noted in the pathology report of the lobectomy resection. Imaging studies performed at that time did not show evidence of the disease elsewhere in the body.
Although SCLC is known to be a radiosensitive tumor histology, the patient was not felt to be a candidate for radiation therapy due to her limited pulmonary reserve. The patient was prescribed chemotherapy with Carboplatin and VP-16. The chemotherapy was given in 4 cycles within a period of three months, and the patient responded well to the treatment. A CT scan of the chest performed three months after the resection showed no evidence of tumor recurrence. The patient had no complaints at that time except for some mild shortness of breath.
Approximately five months later, the patient presented with complaints of headaches and blurred vision. She also reported nausea without vomiting. An MRI scan revealed multiple brain metastases (three lesions). The largest of them was in the left cerebellar hemisphere (1.4 cm3). Other masses were noted in the left frontal lobe (0.56 cm3) and right putamen (0.49 cm3). The patient was then prescribed Decadron and her neurological symptoms significantly improved.
After discussing the available treatment options with a radiation oncologist, WBRT was prescribed to the patient for a period of three weeks. The total radiation dose prescribed was 37.5 Gy in 15 fractions. An MRI performed one month later revealed continued postcontrast enhancement of the masses when compared to