A 38 year old male presented with bilateral leg swelling and frothy urine along with yellowish discolouration of eyes for 1 week duration. Furthermore he had been anorexic and there was progressive weight loss during the last 3 months. He did not have fever. Urine output had been normal and there was no hematuria. There were no features of SLE or vasculitis and patient denied long term use of nephrotoxic or hepatotoxic drugs. He has not had hepatitis in the past and neither admitted any high risk sexual behaviours. There was no family history suggestive of liver or renal disease or amyloidosis. He was a lifelong non smoker and had never consumed alcohol.
Physical examination revealed an ill looking afebrile patient with deep icterus and bilateral pitting ankle oedema extending proximally up to the level of mid leg. He had no peripheral stigmata of chronic liver disease or evidence of encephalopathy. There was no evidence of lymphadenopathy, kayser fleischer rings or vasculitis. There was tender firm hepatomegaly without splenomegaly along with moderate ascites. Cardiovascular, respiratory and neurological examination was normal.
The urine full report showed albuminuria and bile in the urine. Full blood count remained normal throughout. The blood picture showed round macrocytes with few target cells without rouleaux formation. The initial ESR was 45 mm/h and the CRP was 5.8 mg/l.
The liver biochemistry showed progressive worsening of hepatocyte function with predominant rise in GGT and Alkaline phosphatase (Table
). The INR was 1.2 initially but increased up to 2.2 subsequently.
The serum electrolytes and renal function were within normal limits initially but was deteriorating during the hospital stay. Urinary protein: creatinine ration was 4.2. Urine for Bence Johns Protein was negative and the serum and urinary protein electrophoresis were normal without any abnormal monoclonal band. Skeletal survey was not suggestive of myeloma.
Serum ferritin and LDH were with normal range and ANA, Rheumatoid factor and Anti-