A 24-year-old, Vietnamese male, living in Switzerland for the last three years, consulted our unit for unremitting pain in his right knee. He had a right knee contusion two months ago. On history, he related occasional night sweats with chills since that accident accompanied with a weight loss of 5 kg. Otherwise, he is in good health, does not smoke, and takes no medications.
Clinical examination showed a painful red nonulcerating indurations measuring 3 × 4 cm in surface at the level of the right fibular head. It is fluctuating and seems to be adherent to the deep subcutaneous plane. Right knee mobilisation was complete, and neurovascular examination was normal. Blood analysis revealed a marked microcytic anaemia (haemoglobin: 76 g/L, VGM: 61 fl), no leukocytosis, and a CRP of 4 mg/L. Knee radiography showed a lytic lesion with ill-defined margin in the proximal right fibula measuring 1 × 1 cm and breaking through the outer cortex (). We reserved the differential diagnosis of focal osteomyelitis versus a tumoral process since the radiography showed that progressive lesion (). MRI examination demonstrated a hypersignal on T2 images of the proximal right fibular head with breakage through the outer cortical bone and an abscess extension in the surrounding soft tissues. This excluded the tumoral process as a causal agent and oriented us to a focal osteomyelitis with local infiltration of peripheral tissues (). Surgical debridement was done through a centred lateral incision and tissue fragments sent for bacteriology and path anatomy analysis with a special request to look for tuberculous infection. This atypical request was based on the ethnical origin of the patient and the lytic lesion on radiography. Antibiotic therapy has been started empirically with Augmentin (amoxicillin and clavulanic acid) at a dose of 2, 2 g intravenous three times a day. The path anatomical analysis revealed the presence of an acid-alcohol resistant bacillus within an inflammatory process. Bacteriological results were non