A 57 year old woman, non-smoker, non-atopic, was sent to our Department and we detected a neoformant lesion at the beginning of the superior right bronchus (Figure
). Previously she had been admitted to another hospital (in February 2012) after seven episodes of massive hemoptysis. At the bronchoscopy there was no blood in the bronchial tree, but a little lesion with normal mucosa in the superior bronchus. The biopsy was followed by a massive hemoptysis that stopped only after 4 doses of tranexamic acid 5ml/500mg. During the emergency the patient presented a hypotensive crisis, such as after the bleeding cessation she was transferred to the intensive care unit for hemodynamic monitoring. One hour later another bronchoscopic examination was performed confirming the bleeding had stopped. In March a CT/PET was practised and proved negative for hypercaptations. The histological evidence of the biopsy showed normal bronchial mucosa with conserved structure, so this report was considered negative for neoplastic lesions. The patient arrived at our hospital at the end of March, because doctors in charge had suggested a biopsy should be carried out with a rigid bronchoscope which is safer in case of bleeding. However, after taking view of the histological description and visual image of the previous bronchoscopy we decided to use a flexible bronchoscopy in the presence of an anaesthesiologist. We found a lesion of about 1–2 mm in diameter at the beginning of the medium bronchus (Figure
); it raised from the surface with a white cap and covered form, with apparently normal mucosa. There was no lesion in the right upper bronchus, probably because it had disappeared after the previous biopsy. Suspecting a Dieulafoy’s disease, we didn’t carry out a further biopsy of the lesion and proceeded to an angiographic study. The arteriography showed convoluted and ectatic bronchial vascular structures, particularly around and behind the trachea and around the right bronchus (Figure
). An embolization of