In November 2011, a 70-year-old Caucasian female with a background of essential hypertension, diverticulosis, and mild chronic obstructive pulmonary disease presented with an eight week history of significant weight loss (24 kilos), early satiety, postprandial dyspepsia, and nausea with intractable vomiting right after recovering from a lower respiratory tract infection for which she completed two courses of antibiotics in the community (amoxicillin and clarithromycin) with complete recovery. She was a life long smoker of 10–20 cigarettes per day and was drinking thirty units of alcohol weekly. She had no family history of gastric or bowel malignancy.
On clinical examination, her body mass index was reduced with no pallor or jaundice. Respiratory examination revealed slightly decreased air entry bilaterally but otherwise was unremarkable.
Routine electrocardiogram showed sinus rhythm with occasional premature ectopics. Her relevant laboratory findings including liver function tests, urea and electrolytes, bone profile, amylase, C-reactive protein, tumor markers, and full blood count were all within the normal range, except for a low number of platelets and prolonged aPTT.
Initial differential diagnosis included gastric outlet obstruction, malignancy, and peptic ulceration. Chest and abdominal X-ray ruled out mechanical obstruction. Upper and lower gastrointestinal tract endoscopy revealed erythematous mucosa in the body of the stomach and multiple sigmoid diverticulae but ruled out ulceration, obstruction, and malignancy.
Further investigation with abdominal-pelvic computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging of her small bowel showed few clinically insignificant incidental non-gastrointestinal abnormalities but no other evidence of intra-abdominal pathology.
Having ruled out mechanical obstruction and in view of persistence of intractable vomiting, gastroparesis was suspected clinically even though there were no findings suggestive of gastric stasis or dilatation in the previous investigations. Thus, patient was further investigated with gastric emptying studies which was found to be grossly abnormal with half emptying time to be approximately three times the upper normal limit for patient's age, confirming a diagnosis of severe gastroparesis.