A 32-year-old man presented to our hospital with a sore throat, obstruction around the larynx and dyspnea. He had no specific past medical history or history of smoking. Laryngeal fiberscopic examination showed a large mass with necrosis at the middle of the base of tongue (). Movement of the tongue was normal, but the airway was almost completely blocked (). Palpation of the cervical region did not detect lymphadenopathy. Contrast-enhanced computed tomography (CT) demonstrated a 30-mm solid and well-defined mass involving the whole base of tongue (). The sagittal view of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) identified a 34-mm mass occupying the pharyngeal space with a high intensity signal on T2 sequence and low intensity on T1 (). Emergency tracheotomy was performed under local anesthesia, and biopsy was also performed after management of the airway. Histopathological studies showed differentiation to serous cells, while there was no existing glottal structure or fibrous stroma, and proliferative lesions having an acinous structure were seen. No cellular atypia or nuclear division was observed, but partial surface necrosis and vascular infiltration were seen. PAS staining and PAS digestive staining (i.e., diastase treatment followed by PAS) showed positive staining of the cytoplasm of the tumor cells. Mucicarmine staining was negative, showing zymogen-like granules, not mucinous granules. The findings indicated an epithelial malignant tumor showing an acinar or microcystic pattern of invasive growth, and a diagnosis of an oropharyngeal acinar cell adenocarcinoma was made. Resection of the tumor and conservative neck dissection were performed in Jikei University Hospital. This tumor was resected by pull-through method. The tumor resection resulted in a large deficit, and reconstructive surgery was performed using a rectus abdominis myocutaneous flap. For function of swallowing and movement of tongue, we preserved tongue and larynx by keeping lingual artery and hypoglossal nerve. The resected tumor was gray-white, 40 × 33 × 25 mm in size and elastic-hard. Histopathological specimens of the resected