A 60-year-old male, ex-smoker, presented to the emergency department complaining of right colicky pain and high-grade fever 24 hours after being subjected to ESWL. Patient underwent an abdominal ultrasound revealing urolithiasis on the right side along with minimal urine stasis in the right renal pelvis. He was subjected to prophylactic antibiotic coverage and pigtail placement under fluoroscopic guidance with subsequent remission of fever and pain. Forty-eight hours later he complained of acute onset of sharp epigastric pain reflecting to the lumbar region. His physical examination revealed tenderness over the epigastrium with no abdominal palpable mass. The arterial pressure was mildly elevated (140–90 mmHg) and his pulses were 60 bpm. His lab workout revealed a blood count and a basic metabolic panel within normal limits, with the exception of WBC and CRP which were moderately increased. An abdominal duplex ultrasound was performed revealing a flap in the superior mesenteric artery. The CT angiogram of thoracic and abdominal aorta demonstrated an isolated superior mesenteric artery dissection, starting from its orifice, without SMA branch involvement (). Both true and false lumens were patent (). The diameters of the infrarenal aorta and superior mesenteric artery were normal. Additionally, the aorta and the iliac arteries were found abundant of atheromatous plaques.
The patient was transferred to our vascular department. We decided to start a medical treatment consisting of food and liquid restriction, close surveillance, intravenous administration of beta-blockers, and antithrombotic therapy with unfractionated heparin. After 10 hours the patient's symptoms had diminished and subsided 24 hours later. Liquid restriction was halted on the third day and food restriction on the fourth day of admission to our department. No signs of bowel ischemia were reported during the patient's stay in our department. On the seventh day of admission, the patient underwent a CT angiography revealing no change in the arterial dissection. The patient was discharged ten days after admission and was advised to receive warfarin orally and to undergo a follow-up CT angiography one month later.