A 48-year-old male was admitted to the internal medicine ward with chronic pancytopenia secondary to megaloblastic anemia. He had a past medical history of hypertension, dyslipidemia, and a history of smoking.
Three days after admission, septic bursitis of the right olecranon was diagnosed and the patient was treated by surgical drainage of the abscess and a week-long course of antibiotic therapy (fluoroquinolone and penicillin groups). During the next 72 hours, a high fever and abdominal distention were noted. Free air in the abdomen was shown on urgently performed CT and the patient was transferred to the operating room.
Exploration of the abdomen revealed an ischemic area in the cecum with a perforation. Right hemicolectomy with ileostomy was performed. The remaining large intestine was brought out to the abdominal wall as a mucous fistula at the left upper quadrant.
During the next four days in the intensive care unit, the patient continued to be septic with highly elevated temperatures (39.2°C) and extensive leukocytosis (37000 cells/uL). During this time, intensive supportive management included the administration of vasopressors and broad spectrum antibiotics.
On a detailed workup of sepsis, stool sample cultures for Clostridium difficile toxins from the rectum and end ileostomy were performed. Diagnosis of colitis was made by a positive Clostridium difficile toxin in the rectal sample and was confirmed by CT findings of a thickened, dilated, and distended colonic wall (mucus fistula segment) (). Clostridium difficile culture from the ileostomy was negative. Moreover, a pathological examination disclosed cecal perforation, acute peritonitis, and a tubulovillous adenoma in the cecum which was located 3 centimeters distal to the point of perforation. No evidence of colitis was encountered in the removed segment of the right colon.
Infection disease was consulted on how to treat the colonic descending loop. A novel intraluminal antibiotic irrigation through a Foley catheter inserted into the isolated mucus fistula was implemented.