A 65-year-old woman was referred to a gynaecologist for a urethral mass that on gross examination appeared to be a caruncle. Upon examination, a 3-cm wide, pedunculated, black pigmented, friable, haemorrhagic polyp was found at the posterior wall of the urethral meatus. The tumour was removed by local excision. A histopathologic analysis partially revealed a polypoid tumour with superficial ulceration that comprised squamous and transitional epithelia (). The tumour was composed of loosely cohesive nests of atypical epithelioid and spindle-shaped melanocytes that showed diffuse and nested growth patterns. The neoplastic cells had an abundant eosinophilic cytoplasm, large hyperchromatic nuclei with prominent nucleoli, and brisk mitotic activity. Most of the tumour cells contained coarsely granular melanocytic pigment (). The depth of tumour invasion, as measured by a digital microscopic camera (Olympus DP10), was 3.57 mm. No vascular/lymphatic invasion was observed histologically. Immunohistochemically, the tumour cells showed strong cytoplasmic reactivity for HMB-45 and S100 (). Three months after the initial surgery, a resection of the distal third of the urethra showed no evidence of disseminated disease. The initial staging, which included computerised tomography (CT) of the chest, abdomen, and pelvis, revealed no evidence of disseminated disease. A repeat CT of the chest, abdomen, and pelvis two years after the initial diagnosis revealed two enlarged right parailiac lymph nodes, which remained unchanged at two subsequent CT assessments that were performed four and six years after the primary diagnosis. The patient showed no evidence of disease during a six year follow-up period.
It has been suggested that vulvar cancer exists as two separate diseases. The first type involves human papillomavirus (HPV) infection, which leads to vulvar intraepithelial neoplasia (VIN), a predisposing factor for vulvar cancer. An estimated 80% of untreated women suffering from VIN III develop invasive disease []. This type of vulvar cancer often develops in younger patients, and a recent review