A 65-year-old man with continuous irritable cough over 15 days was admitted to our department for a mass lesion in the right hilum. He presented with no face swelling and superficial varicose veins. He was a former smoker, and medical history included hypertension and diabetes mellitus. At bronchoscopy, the tumor was found occluding the right upper lobar bronchus and infiltrating the bronchus intermedius. It was diagnosed as squamous cell carcinoma by transbronchial tumor biopsy. Chest contrast computed tomography (CT) revealed that the mass of 80 mm in the maximum diameter located in the right upper lobe. The tumor directly invaded the arch of the right PA and a wide range of SVC. It was discovered that the left brachiocephalic vein (BCV) along the left margin of mediastinum walking down the line directly into the coronary sinus (). A venous flow was detected in the anterolateral descending aorta with dilatation of the coronary sinus (diameter of 21 mm) without other heart abnormalities by transthoracic echocardiography. Based on these findings, the diagnosis of PLSVC was made. There were no detectable metastases in other organs through brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), upper abdomen CT scan and bone nuclear scan.
The right posterolateral thoracotomy was performed on October 31, 2006. As expected, the tumor invaded the wall of SVC and no left brachial cephalic vein bifurcation was observed. The SVC was separated, clamped and resected following intravenous injection of 5, 000 IU of sodium heparin. The ringed PTFE graft of 12 mm in diameter was interpositioned between the right brachial cephalic vein and the origin of SVC by running sutures with 4-0 polypropylene. The tumor resection was completed by double sleeve lobectomy of right upper and middle lobes. The anastomosis between the right main bronchus and the cut end of the lower lobe bronchus was performed by interrupted suture using 3-0 Vicryl (Ethicon, USA). Right PA trunk and right lower PA reconstruction was completed by the running suture with 4-0 polypropylene