A 43-year-old lady with no previous medical illness presented to the emergency department with complaints of perioral numbness, altered tongue sensation, speech difficulty, and facial droop as noted by her husband since that morning. She was able to mobilize well with no peripheral limb weakness. She had been complaining of upper back pain for the previous 3 days and was seen by a general practitioner and given symptomatic medications with not much relief. She had mild headache and vomiting on the day before her presentation. She denied any fever, headache, neck ache, visual disturbances, giddiness, or tinnitus. There was no history of trauma, travel in the last few years, or joining any adventure expeditions. She denied any history of smoking, alcohol intake, blood transfusion, or sexual promiscuity.
Examination revealed right facial nerve (lower motor neuron) palsy with mild slurring of speech. Examination of the other cranial nerves was normal. Power in all limbs was normal, deep tendon reflexes were present, and her sensory examination was unremarkable. There were no cerebellar signs.
Computed tomography of the brain was done which did not reveal any obvious abnormality. She was referred to the ophthalmology department and no exposure keratopathy was identified. The patient was presumptively diagnosed to have right Bell's palsy and discharged with acyclovir, prednisone, analgesia, eye patch, and moisturizing eye drops. She was given an outpatient otolaryngology followup.
She represented to the emergency department after 3 days with progressive bilateral weakness of the face and drooling. She also had some blurred vision then but denied any weakness of limbs. Examination revealed bilateral lower motor neuron facial nerve palsy. No other neurological sign was elicited during this presentation. Her hematological and biochemical blood tests, including liver function tests and thyroid levels, were normal.
As bilateral facial palsy is suggestive of a possible underlying etiology, the patient was admitted under the care of