A 40-year-old woman presented for cesarean delivery for fetal breech presentation at 39 weeks' gestation under spinal anesthesia. Her previous obstetrical history included two previous first trimester abortions and a full-term pregnancy delivered by cesarean section due to breech presentation. Her present antenatal course was smooth, except for a progressive painless swelling in the right flank noticed at 20 weeks' gestation. Multiple ultrasound examinations were done at different intervals during the course of pregnancy. They demonstrated a rapidly growing sharply defined abdominal mass, heterogeneous in echogenicity and smooth in contour, highly suggestive of a subserosal uterine leiomyoma. No other signs and/or symptoms were reported. The patient denied smoking, drinking alcohol, or taking any medications besides her prenatal vitamins.
Intraoperatively, the tumor was found to be extra-peritoneal originating from the right abdominal wall. It was whitish in color, hard in consistency, and fixed to its surroundings. It was arising from the lateral wall (rectus and external oblique muscles) reaching the vicinity of the anterior superior iliac spine. Following the delivery of a live male newborn (Birthweight: 3560 g; Apgar score 9 at 5 min) through a lower segment transverse uterine incision, a general surgeon was called in for an intraoperative consultation. Frozen sections revealed benign spindle cells suggestive of a desmoid tumor (), although a sarcoma could not be ruled out in view of the tumor rapid growth. The patient consented to a wide surgical excision of the mass within the same surgery. Radical resection of the tumor was performed including affected abdominal wall muscle and a peripheral margin of healthy tissues surrounding it. The patient tolerated the procedure well. She developed right femoral lateral cutaneous neuralgia that resolved spontaneously a few weeks later.
Grossly, the tumor was a 12 × 9.5 × 7 cm mass weighing 457 g, ovoid in shape, firm in consistency, covered by a smooth glistening layer with some attached adipose tissue in areas. Cut sections showed t