We describe a healthy and active 58-year-old man, who four months prior to presentation noticed that he was gaining weight, in spite of participating in aerobic exercise daily and having no change in diet. Three months prior to presentation the patient began noticing an increase in abdominal girth, stating that it, ‘felt like a large ball in my belly. The patient began to develop occasional abdominal discomfort, which slowly increased in pain and frequency. The patient also developed symptoms of constipation and severe gastroesophageal reflux, for control of which, he began taking laxatives and a proton pump inhibitor. He eventually saw his primary care physician and had a computer tomography (CT) scan done, showing a large spherical cystic mass in the abdomen measuring 32 cm by 25 cm (Figure ). The CT scan findings in short were of a massive uniloculated retroperitoneal cyst seen non- communicating to the pleura, or any other abdominal viscera and occupying nearly the entire abdominal space, displacing his entire bowel to the patient’s left, with the cecum and ascending colon located anterior and left of the midline. The mass spanned from the pelvis inferiorly to the liver hilum superiorly. The liver and stomach were compressed. The patient was referred to a surgeon and the recommendation was made to proceed with surgery after complete evaluation. He has no risk factors related to the mesothelioma (exposure to asbestos or any virus) or any malignancy. We checked other risk factors including occupational (exposure to silica or cadmium), family history, social (alcohol intake and smoking) or history of trauma.
In the operating room, after a midline laparotomy, a massive retroperitoneal cyst was discovered to span nearly the entire abdominal width, displacing his entire bowel to the patient’s left, with the cecum and ascending colon located anterior and left of the midline. The mass spanned from the pelvis inferiorly to the liver hilum superiorly. The colon was dissected away from the mass and