A 69-year-old man was referred for surgical assessment after the findings of an abdominal wall and left atrial (LA) mass. He had mild obstructive lung disease and a 30-pack-year smoking history. He sought medical attention after experiencing abdominal discomfort and had noted a 30 lb weight loss over the last few months, apparently related to dieting. There were no other constitutional symptoms. His symptoms persisted despite a course of antibiotics, for presumed diverticulitis. Physical examination was unremarkable. Laboratory investigations revealed a hemoglobin of 131 g/L (normal: 140–180), with all other values within normal limits. Emergency computed tomographic (CT) scan revealed a 5 × 4 cm heterogenous mass in the left anterior abdominal wall and an intracardiac mass. CT head, chest, and abdomen did not show any other masses.
Two biopsies of the abdominal wall mass were examined, and most of the tissue was necrotic. The conclusion was that a definitive diagnosis was not possible (in spite of the immunohistochemistry) and that the definitive diagnosis was best accomplished following cardiac and abdominal mass resection.
Transesophageal echocardiogram (TEE) revealed a 4.4 × 3.5 cm mass attached to the posterolateral wall of the left atrium, above the mitral annulus. Mean and peak gradients across the mitral inflow were 4 and 12 mmHg, respectively (). Cardiac CT and MRI corroborated the TEE findings ().
Coronary angiography showed a 90% right coronary artery (RCA) lesion. The patient underwent extensive resection of the LA mass and repair of the left atrium, left ventricle, left ventricular outflow tract, as well as mitral valve replacement and saphenous vein graft to RCA. The postoperative course was complicated by acute renal failure requiring dialysis and reintubation for volume overload. Ten days postoperatively, he became acutely hypotensive, developed multiorgan failure, and succumbed to his illness.
Macroscopic examination of the cardiac specimen revealed an atrial mass weighing 30.4 grams with a side to