A 67-year-old gentleman with a 30-year history of chewing tobacco underwent excision of nasal polyps in December 2011. Final surgical pathology revealed adenoid cystic carcinoma, and he subsequently underwent bilateral lateral rhinotomies, resection of skull base tumor including nasal bones, frontal process of the maxilla, and nasal septum. After intraoperative evaluation of the defect, the defect was reconstructed with a pedicled mucosal lining flap, split calvarial bone graft, and paramedian forehead flap.
The design of the paramedian forehead flap was based on a paper template that was created from the defect. A Doppler probe was used to identify the course of the right supratrochlear vessels (). The flap was raised from distal to proximal, first in the supra-periosteal plane, and then the subperiosteal plane beginning 1 cm above the orbital rim. The flap was then transposed into the defect and sutured in place with interrupted sutures (). The forehead defect was closed primarily; however, due to tension on the skin edges, a small portion was left to heal by secondary intention.
The patient's postoperative course was uneventful, and 28 days following the first stage, he returned to the operating room for pedicle division and flap inset. Prior to division of the pedicle, perfusion of the flap was assessed using the LifeCell SpyElite System. The pedicle was compressed with both a Penrose drain and a forcep. A 10-mg dose of ICG was administered intravenously and images were captured with the SpyElite System (). (There is not currently a consensus as to the dose of ICG that should be administered. The dose chosen was arrived at through discussion with LifeCell representatives as well as extrapolation from previous usage in other reconstructive efforts). Fluorescence was observed throughout the flap and division and inset were performed. A second 10-mg dose of ICG was administered intravenously after inset (23 minutes after the first dose was given) to confirm perfusion