A 48-year-old African American man presented to our emergency department (ED) with hematemesis and melena. Associated symptoms included dizziness and generalized weakness. He denied any abdominal pain or previous episodes of gastrointestinal bleeding. He also denied prior endoscopic work-up. His medical history included ESRD on maintenance hemodialysis, seizure disorder, dyslipidemia, and hypertension. His surgical history included repair of abdominal aortic aneurysm, aortic valve replacement, and construction of arteriovenous (AV) fistula multiple times for dialysis access. Patient was receiving Coumadin for his aortic valve replacement; however, patient was noncompliant with Coumadin for few days prior to his admission. He denied the use of tobacco, alcohol, or recreational drugs.
Physical examination on the patient revealed hypotension with systolic blood pressure of 80 millimeters of mercury. Patient was in mild distress with clear mentation and was able to provide clear history. His abdominal examination was normal with no distension or tenderness. Rectal examination revealed black tarry stool. Examination of his upper extremities revealed dilated, tortuous veins at the site of previous AV fistulas without any evidence of bleeding. Initial laboratory tests revealed hemoglobin of 6 grams/dL with normal platelet count and coagulation profile. His blood urea nitrogen and serum creatinine were elevated consistent with his underlying renal disease. His liver chemistries were within normal limits.
Review of his old medical records revealed that he underwent angioplasties of cephalic vein, subclavian vein, and superior vena cava multiple times for failed dialysis access. He also underwent AV fistula construction of bilateral upper extremities with attempted revision and repair several times. Temporary hemodialysis access catheter placement through subclavian vein was also done multiple times.
After adequate resuscitation with packed red blood cells (PRBC) and intubation for airway protection, an emergent esophagogastroduodenoscopy was performed. Endoscopy revealed grade III esophageal varices () in the upper third of the esophagus. No active bleeding was noted from esophageal varices at the time of the procedure; however