A 28-year-old Caucasian female with a past medical history of hypothyroidism presented for evaluation of a new onset shortness of breath associated with cough productive of whitish-colored sputum for one week. Few days prior to the presentation, patient visited another medical facility for same complaints where she was diagnosed with community acquired pneumonia for which antibiotics were given. Symptoms progressively worsened despite of being on antibiotics. On the night of presentation patient woke up suddenly due to acute worsening of breathing difficulty. Patient also noted acute worsening of left leg swelling, and that swelling had become painful. Rest of review of symptoms was significant for history of chest tightness for few hours, leg swelling for last two days, exertional dyspnea and nonspecific myalgia for one week. There was no history of sick contacts, recent travel, trauma, fever, or chills. Patient had never smoked prior to presentation. There was no history of prior clotting problem or clotting problem in the family. At the time of presentation patient was taking levothyroxine and birth control pills. Initial vitals at the time of presentation were: blood pressure of 127/68 mm Hg, pulse 92 beats per minute, temperature 98.4 F (36.7°C), respiratory rate of 19 per minute with an oxygen saturation of 97% on room air. Patient was 5 feet 4 inches tall and weighed 290 pounds. Physical exam revealed young obese female in no acute distress; lungs were clear to auscultation; heart rhythm was regular, no added heart sound, murmur, rub, or gallop; abdomen was soft with positive bowel sounds. Significant physical examination findings were, tender erythematous swelling of left leg from ankle to the thigh; left calf measured 22 inches, whereas right calf measured 20 inches; pulses were palpable in bilateral lower extremities. Considering a very high probability of DVT and pulmonary embolism (PE) patient was given one-time dose of therapeutic subcutaneous enoxaparin. Basic workup including complete blood