Patient: male, 65 yrs old. In December 2011th underwent an ENT visit because of recent onset of dysphonia in smoking status (20 cigarettes/die) with objective diagnosis of clear nasal passages, normal oropharynx, normal larynx motility, and leukoplakia infiltrating the anterior third of the left vocal cord. The day after the ENT visit he also underwent a chest X-ray with accidental diagnosis of right pulmonary upper lobe nodule worthy of thorough investigation with a computed tomography. CT scan of the chest confirmed nodule presence, indicating the neoplastic nature, and also lower paratracheal (right), mediastinal para-aortic, and right pulmonary hilar lymphadenopathies (Figures and ). An increase in size of left adrenal gland was also described. In January 2012 a biopsy of vocal cords was done with diagnosis of mildly differentiated infiltrating squamous cell carcinoma only for the left cord. Then an abdominal CT scan was done with accidental finding of a neoplastic mass of 6 cm of maximum diameter in the left kidney (). At the end of January 2012, five days after left vocal cord biopsy, the patient underwent a 18F-FDG PET/CT scan (blood glucose level at the administration of the tracer was 87 mg/dL) with diagnosis of faint tracer uptake of the already known right pulmonary nodule (SUVmax 1.3) and also diagnosis of only one right paratracheal suspicious lymphadenopathy (SUVmax 4.6) worthy of followup (Figures , , and ). At the beginning of February 2012 the patient was subjected to CO2-laser endoscopic laryngectomy. Histology confirmed the presence of mildly differentiated infiltrating squamous cell carcinoma. In February he was subjected to an atypical resection of the right upper lung nodule and to lymphadenectomy of the node identified at the PET/CT study. Bioptic examination revealed a well-differentiated lung adenocarcinoma characterized by 90% of lipid component and a remaining part of infiltrating acinous pattern, unexpectedly a mediastinal node involvement by clear cell carcinoma suspicious of renal origin. Finally, in