A 44-year-old African-American man with a previous medical history of uncontrolled hypertension (noncompliant with antihypertensive medications), smoking cigarettes, and chronic alcohol and cocaine abuse presented to an outside hospital with the complaint of altered speech that had waxed and waned for one week. On presentation to the outside hospital, his National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale (NIHSS) was 2 for isolated dysarthria. His blood pressure was 285/185mmHg. After treatment with hydralazine, his systolic blood pressure decreased to about 130mmHg and he became acutely aphonic. He remained alert and followed all commands, but was unable to produce speech. With maximal effort, our patient was able to produce short breathy sounds. His NIHSS increased to 9, primarily based upon his inability to verbally respond to questions. Given his severe speech deficit, our patient was treated with intravenous tissue plasminogen activator with a subsequent improvement in NIHSS, returning to 2. He was transferred to our hospital for further workup.
On arrival at our hospital, our patient’s blood pressure was 169/98mmHg with a pulse of 86 beats per minute. Initial general physical and neurological examinations were unremarkable except for aphonia and mild right nasolabial flattening, with an NIHSS of 4 consistent with those deficits. The remainder of his neurological examination was non-focal. A toxicology screen was positive for urine cocaine metabolites. Our patient’s electrocardiogram demonstrated normal sinus rhythm with left atrial enlargement and ventricular hypertrophy, ST elevation, a prolonged QT interval and T-wave abnormality, consistent with possible inferior anterolateral ischemia. His level of troponin I was elevated. A transthoracic echocardiogram showed severe concentric left ventricular hypertrophy with impaired relaxation grade 1 diastolic dysfunction. Computed tomography of his brain revealed a chronic lacunar infarct in his right basal ganglia. Computed tomography angiography of his head and neck showed no evidence of vascular stenoses. Magnetic resonance imaging of his brain demonstrated bilateral areas of acute infarction within his