A 65-year-old gentleman, a retired cotton mill worker, presented to our clinic with right eye diminution of vision of 10 days duration. He was also a smoker for the past 45 years but was otherwise fit. On examination, his best corrected visual acuity was no perception of light in OD and OS was 6/9, N6. He had an afferent pupillary defect in the right eye, and his fundus examination revealed a total exudative retinal detachment with a mass lesion in the superonasal quadrant of posterior retina. B-scan ultrasonography showed a 9.68∗9.24 mm mushroom-shaped mass lesion with high internal reflectivity and acoustic solidity, superonasal to the optic disc with total exudative retinal detachment (). Computed tomography scan of the orbit revealed an intraocular mass lesion over optic disc in the superonasal quadrant. There was no evidence of optic nerve infiltration or breach of scleral coats. A working diagnosis of choroidal melanoma was made. Of the treatment options offered, the patient opted for enucleation of the eye.
The histopathological examination of the enucleated eyeball revealed a well-circumscribed tumor arising from the RPE and composed of round-to-oval cells with vesicular nuclei arranged in papillary pattern with fibrovascular core and mucinous stroma (). Numerous mitoses were seen. The tumor cells showed positive immunostaining for cytokeratin and vimentin suggesting epithelial origin of the tumor and negative for melanin-specific HMB-45. This was suggestive of a well-differentiated adenocarcinoma of the retinal pigment epithelium and infiltrating the vitreous, choroid, and optic nerve head. Given the rarity of this tumor, a high suspicion index for a secondary origin was maintained. Metastatic workup identified a mass lesion in the lung on high-resolution computed tomography scan which pointed towards the diagnosis of primary bronchogenic carcinoma (). The patient was referred to an oncologist and was advised a bronchoscopic biopsy of the lung lesion. However, the patient refused any intervention at this point in time