A 46-year-old Dominican woman presented to emergency room with complaints of five hours of vomiting and profuse diarrhea in summer 2011. Symptoms started within 3 hours after eating chicken sandwich and salad, which were prepared at home. While frequency of vomiting decreased, she reported diarrhea, which later occurred and was too often to count. Subsequently, her urine output decreased. The patient denied fever or blood in the stool. She had previously been healthy and was not taking any medications. She had no known allergies. Her last travel to Dominican Republic or outside the US was more than 3 years ago. She lived with her husband and son. She consumed alcohol occasionally and did not smoke or use illicit drugs. Her family and friends who had the dinner together had been well. She had no history of similar symptoms in the past. She denied recent use of antibiotics or hospitalization. She had gastric bypass surgery in 2005 and abdominoplasty in 2007. At presentation, she was afebrile with pulse rate of 103 beats/minute. Her blood pressure was 89/52 with orthostatic changes. Her mucous membranes were dry; the remainder of the examination was unremarkable. Laboratory test results were significant for anionic gap metabolic acidosis with acute kidney injury and severe hypokalemia. There was no leucocytosis. Liver enzyme tests showed mildly increased aminotransferases. The laboratory data at presentation are presented in . The patient was admitted to the critical care unit due to acute renal failure with severe electrolyte abnormalities. Human Immunodeficiency Virus test was negative. She had central line placement for close monitoring of central venous pressure. She had a total stool output of 40 liters by the end of 5 days. Later, her stool color changed to green. Stool ova and parasites and Clostridium difficile toxin were negative. Computed tomography scan of abdomen showed normal bowel pattern without any dilated loops of bowel and unremarkable pancreas (). She later recalled eating cheese brought by relatives from Dominican Republic 1 day prior to