A 76-year-old Caucasian female who was a non-smoker, with a history of heart ischemic disease, hypertension, anemia and diabetes, underwent a laparoscopic left radical nephrectomy for a renal neoplasm of 10×7 cm in the superior left renal pole in 2011. The postoperative course was uneventful and the patient was discharged after 6 days. The histological examination revealed the presence of a renal cell carcinoma, Fuhrman grade 2, with extensive necrosis and phlogosis areas (TNM 2009 RCC pT2a). Informed consent was obtained from the patient.
After discharge, the patient was readmitted for a sciatica episode and underwent two abdomen ultrasonography examinations, with no notable pathological findings.
After a few days, the patient noted an indolent swelling in the proximal third of the right thigh. The patient subsequently underwent ultrasonographic evaluation, revealing the presence of a solid, vascularized mass that was ∼40×22 mm in size.
The subsequent CT documented the presence of a pathological, solid, dishomogeneous bulk that was ∼4.5 cm diameter, in the front of the right iliac vessels, immediately cranial to the inguinal region. Another smaller (1.5 cm) lesion was observed in the ipsilateral inguinale region, while an additional solid expansive lesion was noted in the rectus femoris muscle ().
The fine needle biopsy of the muscle mass documented a metastasis of renal cell carcinoma (). The histochemical analysis revealed positive staining for vimentin and CAM, and negative staining for cytokeratin 7.
Moreover, we performed a cerebral CT and a total body bone scan, in order to achieve a complete stadiation of the patient. Neither of the examinations revealed further meta-static localization.
A joint evaluation of the patient was performed with the oncologist, the general surgeon and the radiotherapist. With regard to the pathological stage of the disease and the comorbidity of the patient, it was decided to refer the patient for targeted therapy with sunitinib.
Therefore, the patient