The second case, a 51-year-old Caucasian male, a heavy smoker, complained of abdominal discomfort and an abdominal ultrasound (US) exam performed in June 2004 was significant for a mass in the right kidney, consistent with RCC. He underwent a radical right nephrectomy that was histologically proved to be a chromophobe RCC of nuclear grade Fuhrman 4, stage T1N0. Following regular follow-up with abdominal US in December 2004, a solid mass in his left kidney was revealed, which was again consistent with RCC. He underwent a radical left nephrectomy and the lesion histologically proved to be a clear cell RCC, of nuclear grade Fuhrman 3, stage T1N0. The patient required renal replacement therapy and he started a three times weekly course of hemodialysis. In December 2009 after a regular basis follow-up with abdominal CT scan, an asymptomatic local disease recurrence at the anatomical bed of the right kidney consisting of a solid mass of 34 mm diameter with central calcification, displacing the inferior vena cava and psoas muscle was diagnosed. Sunitinib at 50 mg/day for 4 weeks with a 2-week washout phase was then administered leading to partial disease response. A radical excision of the recurrence was attempted in January 2010, however the surgical margins were macroscopically invaded by RCC. Interestingly, the lesion was histologically proved to be a recurrence of the primary chromophobe RCC. Two weeks after the resection the patient manifested a subacute left temporal-occipital hematoma in brain CT scan which was attributed mainly to a hemostasis disorder induced by the dialysis procedures. Due to postoperative residual disease the patient was treated with a second generation mTOR inhibitor, Everolimus 10 mg/day per os which led to complete response of the disease, without major toxicity. Nine years after the initial diagnosis of RCC he is disease free and leads an active life.
The incidence of bilateral RCC either synchronous or metachronous has been reported to be 2–13% []. Patients with RCC are in high