In 2006, a 58-year-old female retired salesperson with a seven-year history of respiratory impairment due to clinical symptoms of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) and a continuous oxygen therapy dependency for one year was referred to the Department of Surgery at the Medical University of Vienna. The former smoker (40 pack years) was evaluated for lung transplantation and received a single lung transplant (left lung) 12 months later in 2007.
The immediate posttransplant course was uneventful, and the patient was maintained on a triple immunosuppressive therapy consisting of tacrolimus, everolimus, and prednisolone. Four days after the surgery, she developed angina pectoris with elevated heart enzymes, but without any coronary lesions in the angiogram. Graft function was untainted during this incident, and the patient's pulmonary function parameters were satisfactory ( and Figures and ).
However, during routine follow-up visits, worsening renal function became evident. This was, at that time, explained to be most likely due to a combination of the nephrotoxic effects of the immunosuppressants, the patient's diabetes mellitus, that became incident after transplantation, and her vascular disease. Notably, before her presentation in 2006, the renal function was normal, and there was no evidence of proteinuria or hematuria ().
One year after transplantation, the patient was admitted to the hospital with pneumonia of the native right lung and a doubling of the serum creatinine. She recovered with intravenous antibiotic, and the serum creatinine decreased to prior levels. Since the patient reported several episodes of diarrhea in the previous weeks, it was concluded that the rise of creatinine could be explained by dehydration too.
Three years following transplantation, she developed a second episode of acute on chronic renal failure, again related to diarrhea. By that time, the serum creatinine was 5.68 mg/dL, the blood urea nitrogen level was 69.4 mg/dL, and mild proteinuria with a protein to creatinine ratio of 798 mg/g was present. Ultrasound showed normal-