A 52-year-old man was admitted to the hospital because of sepsis from a posterior neck abscess. His past medical history included heavy smoking, dyslipidemia, diabetes mellitus type II, and coronary artery bypass graft surgery three years earlier. There was no personal or family history of thyroid disease. Ten days before admission, a furuncle developed on his posterior neck but was not treated. His baseline parameters at admission included a fever of 39.2°C and a WBC of 17,000. There was no evidence of organ failure. A CT scan of his neck with an iodine-containing contrast agent showed an extensive inflammatory process involving the subcutaneous and muscle tissue of the posterior neck, which extended to the paravertebral space at the level of C4-C5, without direct contact with the thyroid gland. The CT also showed a slightly enlarged right lobe and isthmus of the thyroid gland as an incidental finding ().
Treatment was initiated with broad-spectrum antibiotics (ciprofloxacin, clindamycin, and penicillin), and the patient was taken urgently to the operating room for wide incision, iodine irrigation, and abscess drainage.
In spite of antibiotic therapy, recurrent iodine irrigations, and regular changes of dressings the patient showed no clinical improvement. Within a few days he developed severe sepsis with acute respiratory failure, necessitating intubation and mechanical ventilation. At that point the patient was transferred to the intensive care unit (ICU).
Treatment in the ICU included mechanical ventilation support (at first oral tube and later via tracheostomy), antibiotics as indicated by bacteriological cultures, and extensive surgical debridement of necrotic subcutaneous tissue and muscles through the upper portion of the back ().
At each operation the wound field was washed multiple times with iodine-containing solutions. The patient underwent two additional CT scans of the head, neck, and chest with contrast iodine to guide surgical exploration (see for details).
The surgical wound started to heal with a decreasing need for debridement. The patient was weaned successfully from ventilatory support but was tachycardic, and his fever