We report a case of a 57-year-old man, caucasian, with a history of hypertension, dyslipidemia and former smoking, that suffered 13 years ago an acute antero-lateral myocardial infarction (MI) and was then submitted to angioplasty with stents implantation in the left anterior descending (LAD) and circumflex arteries. In the follow-up he was informed that he had developed a left ventricular (LV) aneurysm.
He remained asymptomatic until 2 years ago, when he was brought to the Emergency Department with a syncopal episode. The ECG on admission revealed the presence of sinus rhythm with Q waves, ST segment elevation and negative T waves in the anterior and lateral leads, which were findings that were already known for previous ECG after MI. The biomarkers of myocardial necrosis were elevated with a peak troponin I of 3,2 μg/L. He was then admitted to the Cardiology Department with the diagnosis of non-ST segment elevation acute MI.
The transthoracic echocardiography (Figure ) revealed a moderate LV systolic dysfunction with hypokinesia of the anterior and inferior walls and septum and an apical LV aneurysm. Surprisingly, the apical aneurysm contour exhibited an abrupt discontinuity that gave access to another cavity filled with an echodense material. The relationship between the maximum diameter of the neck and the maximum internal diameter of this cavity was inferior to 0.5, suggesting that this cavity was a pseudoaneurysm with a large thrombus inside.
3-D echocardiography showed calcification of the pericardium and echo-contrast filling out the pseudoaneurysm neck (Figure ).
The coronary angiography revealed a sub-occlusive stenosis of the stent in the LAD and the left ventriculography demonstrated an apical aneurysm surrounded by another giant apical cavity suggestive of a pseudoaneurysm that seemed to be carpeted by a thrombus (Figure ).
Patient underwent coronary artery bypass surgery and resection of the pseudoaneurysm –externally the apex region was fully adherent to the pericardium with areas of calcification on the “wall”