A 75-year-old Caucasian man presented to the emergency room of our hospital for dyspnea and new onset generalized oedema rapidly progressing over one week. The patient was known for stable coronary artery disease, paroxysmal atrial fibrillation with oral anticoagulation, chronic obstructive bronchitis, hypertension, and dyslipidemia. He had stopped smoking 3 years before, had no history of alcoholism, and had never taken illegal drugs.
Vital signs at presentation were stable. The patient was afebrile and not in respiratory distress. Physical examination revealed generalized oedema associated with ascites and hepatomegaly. The jugular veins were not distended, but there was a strong clinical suspicion of a right-sided pleural effusion. An initial chest X-ray confirmed an important right pleural effusion and a 1 cm sized nodule in the right lower lobe (not shown). Results of laboratory tests are shown in . Most strikingly, there was a new onset perturbation of liver markers.
A contrast enhanced CT scan of the chest, abdomen, and the pelvis was performed. The abdominal CT scan showed a very heterogeneous liver. Except for segments 2 and 3, the whole liver contained multiple ill-defined and partially confluent hypodensities of different size suggesting an advanced neoplastic process (). There was also a doubt of a hypodense lesion inside the inferior vena cava (). The hepatic lesions were associated with a moderate quantity of ascites but no splenomegaly (. The chest study confirmed the presence of a large right-sided pleural effusion and a 1 cm sized nodule in the anterior part of the right lower lung lobe (not shown). On transthoracic echocardiography, a well-defined, immobile oval mass with a smooth surface and a size of 23 mm × 30 mm was noted in the right atrium (). The mass was not adherent to the interatrial septum (). The mass extended to the inferior vena cava where it reached a size of 34 mm × 25 mm, creating a subtotal occlusion with a pressure gradient of 13 mmHg between the inferior vena cava and the right atrium (). The occluded inferior