A 57-year-old Caucasian male with a 60-pack-year smoking history and no other co-morbidities or medical conditions initially presented to an outside hospital with a large left-sided chest wall neoplasm. (Figure A) Biopsy revealed a high-grade pleomorphic sarcoma. At the time of presentation, there were numerous pulmonary metastases and therefore he was not felt to be a surgical candidate. He received 3 cycles of doxorubicin and ifosfamide chemotherapy resulting in a modest radiographic response in the pulmonary metastases. There was no appreciable change in the primary neoplasm and he subsequently received radiation therapy to the chest wall with a total of 5,000 cGy over 25 treatments. Six weeks after receiving radiation, he developed significant skin and tumor ulceration resulting in diffuse bleeding refractory to multiple local hemostatic measures including cauterization and application of numerous topical agents. He required constant blood transfusions, a total of 8 units over a 12-week interval. Hematologic studies revealed no evidence of an underlying bleeding disorder. Attempts at percutaneous transarterial coil embolization of several chest wall arteries were subsequently performed however they were unsuccessful and the bleeding and skin ulceration worsened. (Figure B) As the patient’s metastatic disease was felt to be controlled, he was referred to our institution for urgent chest wall resection.
At the time of surgery, wide chest wall excision was performed with an approximately 3 cm circumferential gross tumor free margin. Ultimately, ribs 4 through 8 were excised anteriorly from the costal cartilages to the anterior axillary line posteriorly. The resultant chest wall defect measured approximately 15 cm by 20 cm (Figure B). Chest wall reconstruction was accomplished with a double layer of prolene mesh covered by transverse rectus abdominus myocutaneous (TRAM) flap (Figure C). Pathologic analysis demonstrated an undifferentiated high-grade pleomorphic sarcoma with microscopic tumor free margins. The patient’s post-operative course was uncomplicated and he was discharged after eight days in improved condition. He