A 38-year-old African American woman came to emergency room with generalized body aches. She also reported three episodes of vomiting containing clear liquid and subjective fever. She denied respiratory, cardiovascular or neurological symptoms at the time of initial evaluation. Her past medical history was negative for any medical conditions. Her surgical history included right knee arthroscopy few years back. She denied tobacco, alcohol or recreational drug use. She denied any allergies to medications in the past.
In the emergency room she was found to have temperature of 100 degrees of Fahrenheit, heart rate of 72 per minute, systolic blood pressure of 164 and diastolic blood pressure of 64 millimeters of mercury respectively. On examination she was a well built woman without any distress. Her abdominal examination did not reveal any tenderness, organomegaly or clinically detectable free fluid. Her cardiovascular, respiratory and neurological examination was within normal limits. Her laboratory and imaging tests revealed abnormal liver chemistries () and dilated common bile duct (CBD) of 8 millimeters without any evidence of cholelithiasis or choledocholithiasis. She was hydrated with intravenous fluids and treated symptomatically with Ibuprofen 800 mg for body aches as needed. She was admitted to medical floor for further work up and management.
On day 2, gastroenterology evaluation was requested for abnormal liver chemistries. She did not report any further episodes of vomiting and her body aches slightly improved with ibuprofen. On further interviewing it was noted that recently she fell and injured her left knee. She was evaluated by orthopedician and noted to have anterior cruciate ligament, medial meniscus and medial collateral ligament tears on magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). She mentioned that for last one week she had been taking over-the-counter Ibuprofen 600 mg tablets as needed for her knee pain. Extensive laboratory work up aimed to diagnose viral, metabolic and autoimmune liver diseases was requested. Magnetic resonance cholangiopancreatography (MRCP) was requested to rule out biliary obstruction, as there was CBD