A 50 year old Caucasian male was referred to the thoracic surgery department for evaluation of an intramural esophageal mass. The patient complained of atypical chest pain of gradual onset over the previous 6 months. He denied weight loss, dysphagia, upper GI bleeding, reflux, or other symptoms. The patient's medical history included hypertension and a 30-pack-year smoking history. After a chest radiograph failed to show any pathology, a computed tomography (CT) scan was ordered which revealed showed a 5 cm mass on the midesophagus at the junction of the azygos vein with the superior vena cava (). Endoscopy showed a normal esophageal mucosa and endoscopic ultrasound a smooth, submucosal mass. A CT scan of the abdomen did not show any evidence of distant metastases.
The mass was approached via a right posterolateral thoracotomy (). The subcarinal lymph nodes were found to be enlarged and were sent for frozen section, which was negative for malignancy. The mass was enucleated from the esophageal wall by gently detaching it from the mucosa. No adhesions with the mucosa or muscularis were noted, and the mass was excised with its capsule intact. A frozen section of the mass indicated the mesenchymal origin, with a possible diagnosis of leiomyoma. The muscular layer of the esophagus was repaired with vicryl 4-0 interrupted sutures and covered with parietal pleura. Integrity of the esophageal mucosa was established by intraoperative endoscopy. An upper gastrointestinal series on postoperative day 1 showed no evidence of a leak, and the patient was uneventfully discharged on the 6th postoperative day.
On macroscopic examination, the mass was 5.5 × 3.5 × 1.5 cm in size and grayish in color with a fasciated texture (). Histologically the mass corresponded to an encapsulated mesenchymatous neoplasm, consisting of fibrous and muscle fascicles with sparse round and spindle cells (). No neoplastic cells were found to infiltrate the margins of the capsule. There was no evidence of necrosis and <2 mitoses per 50 high-power