A 39-year-old female presented to the emergency department with acute onset of right retroorbital and temporal headache associated with left-sided weakness and numbness following sexual intercourse. She was otherwise healthy without cerebrovascular risk factors, tobacco use, or illicit drug use. She was taking oral contraceptives. There was no family history of premature coronary artery disease or stroke. Initial general examination was notable for a blood pressure of 158/98. Neurologic examination revealed a left lower facial droop and hemiparesis. Brain MRI revealed an acute stroke in the right cerebral hemisphere in a watershed distribution (). Head MRA demonstrated no flow-related enhancement within the petrous and cavernous segments of the right ICA with reconstitution of the ICA at the ophthalmic artery level. Axial fat-saturated T1-weighted MRI through the skull base demonstrated a distortion of the lumen of the petrous and cavernous segments of the right ICA by a rounded region of increased signal abnormality consistent with a dissection (). Conventional 4-vessel cerebral angiography demonstrated 360-degree loops in both cervical ICAs (). At the apex of the loop involving the proximal right internal carotid artery, there was a fusiform aneurysm filled with a subintimal thrombus resulting in poor antegrade flow into the distal ICA and cerebral circulation. The 360-degree loop in the mid-cervical portion of the left internal carotid artery was not associated with outflow obstruction. The 360-degree loop in the distal right ICA was not felt to be amenable to surgical intervention by vascular surgery due to the distal nature of the vascular anomaly. She was anticoagulated with warfarin for 7 months followed by treatment with extended-release dipyridamole plus aspirin daily. Her left hemiparesis progressively improved following discharge and she had no residual weakness after 1 month. Eight years later, she presented with acute onset of right hemiplegia associated with a global aphasia. Brain MRI revealed a large stroke in the distribution of the left middle cerebral artery (). She was discharged four months later without clinical improvement and was lost to followup.