We present the case of a 54-year-old female who was diagnosed five years earlier with Scadding stage II sarcoidosis. Diagnosis was biopsy proven with noncaseating granulomas found in endobronchial biopsies. Pulmonary complaints were dyspnoea on exertion and coughing. Moreover, her sarcoidosis was accompanied by severe small fiber neuropathy which was invalidating in everyday life. Other extrapulmonary symptoms were extrathoracic lymph nodes. A trial of prednisone failed due to severe psychological side effects. The severity of her symptoms and established disease activity on 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography (18F-FDG-PET) scan prompted the decision to initiate infliximab therapy. Infliximab was administered at a monthly dose of 5 mg/kg bodyweight accompanied by a low dose of methotrexate (7.5 mg/week).
She visited an Ear-Nose-Throat (ENT) specialist for complaints of varying hoarseness. She had never smoked and did not consume alcohol. There was no history of passive smoking or occupational exposure as she had an office job. Biopsy of the vocal cord did not reveal an underlying malignancy and it was diagnosed as chronic laryngitis. She was treated with speech therapy, proton pump inhibitors, and antifungal therapy.
Seven months after initiation of infliximab therapy she revisited her ENT specialist with increasing vocal problems. Biopsy of the right true vocal cord revealed a squamous cell carcinoma with extensive necrosis, which was radically excised using laser surgery. After staging of the lymph nodes and exclusion of pulmonary metastases by chest X-ray, it was classified as a T1aN0M0 larynx carcinoma of the right true vocal cord. After elaborate discussions, she continued infliximab therapy because of the unlikely relation with the vocal cord tumor, full recovery from her vocal cord malignancy after ENT surgery, and the positive effect on her sarcoidosis with increased quality of life. Within a year her voice turned increasingly hoarse and a second larynx carcinoma on the opposite vocal cord was discovered (). This vocal cord tumour was