The patient was a 40-year-old Asian male with a four-month history of a dry cough, dyspnea and hemoptysis. The patient was a heavy smoker with an unremarkable medical history. A chest computed tomography (CT) scan revealed the presence of multiple nodules scattered in both lungs without hilar and mediastinal lymphadenopathy or pleural effusion (). Initially, a bronchofibroscope examination failed to reveal any abnormalities. In order to obtain a definitive diagnosis, the tissue specimens were taken by diagnostic right thoracoscopic lung biopsy.
The histological diagnosis of PEH was based on the pathological examination. The pathological examination of the biopsied specimen revealed that the center of the pulmonary nodule was sclerotic and hypocellular, with hyalinization and calcification. The tumor cells were round with abundant eosinophilic cytoplasm, intracytoplasmic vacuolization and a signet ring-like appearance (). Immunohistochemical analysis revealed that the tumor cells were positive for the endothelial markers, factor-VIII-related antigen and CD34 ().
PEH disease progressed rapidly in this patient one month after pulmonary surgery. The T1-weighted magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) section examination revealed a nodular lesion in the brain, which was strongly suggestive of brain metastasis (). The CT revealed a spreading of the nodules throughout both lungs three months after surgery (). At this point, the patient began treatment with one cycle of chemotherapy with cisplatin, paclitaxel and endostar (15 mg/day for 14 consecutive days). The patient demonstrated improvements in dyspnea and a dramatic improvement in their clinical status. However, no change in the size of the pulmonary nodules over the period of chemotherapy was observed. The patient subsequently received another two cycles (two, bi-weekly) of chemotherapy treatment with carboplatin, paclitaxel and endostar. No significant reduction was observed in the tumor size and number, and the disease progressed. Following three months of stabilization, progression of the disease was evident. Therefore, the patient was discharged without further treatment. The patient survived for six months following the initial diagnosis