A 60-year-old male presented to the ENT clinic in November 2008 with a two-month history of dysphonia. There were no other symptoms apart from lethargy. His past medical history included mild chronic obstructive airway disease which required no treatment. He was a cigarette smoker: 40 pack years and consumed approximately 20 units of alcohol per week mostly in the form of spirits.
On examination, he appeared systemically well, with no peripheral stigmata of chronic disease. Examination of the neck revealed bilateral cervical lymphadenopathy. There were multiple small (<2 cm), firm, well-circumscribed masses bilaterally which were mostly distributed within levels II-III of the neck. Flexible nasendoscopy performed in the clinic showed a fixed left hemilarynx. Examination under anaesthesia confirmed the findings of the flexible nasendoscopy, a large tumour of the left vocal cord crossing the anterior commissure to the right side along with slight subglottic extension.
A staging CT scan of the head and neck was undertaken which showed a transglottic mass with significant local invasion and confirmed the bilateral enlarged cervical lymph nodes. No distant metastases were noted, including clear lung fields ().
Two weeks after presentation, total laryngectomy and bilateral modified radical neck dissections were performed. The histology revealed a 3.5 cm moderately differentiated (grade 2) SCC with microvascular, perineural, and thyroid cartilage invasion (T4). In addition, bilateral lymph nodes were positive for metastatic SCC with extracapsular spread evident on the left side (<6 cm greatest dimension). This cancer was therefore staged as T4N2c.
In January 2009 (2 months postoperatively) the patient attended a routine follow-up appointment. He was well and had no symptoms of local recurrence or distant metastatic spread; however, on examination a small parastomal lesion was seen. Prompt local excision of this was performed and histology showed a parastomal recurrence. As a consequence, chemoradiotherapy was started.
Six months after the initial presentation, the patient returned