An 8-year-old Caucasian male presented to our facility with a 2-week history of refractory clear rhinorrhea, facial pain, jaw pain, and somnolence. The patient had previously been diagnosed with sporadic GS after being found to have multiple basal cell nevi and pitting of the palms and soles at the age of 5, as well as more recently a second relapse of ALL and chemotherapy-associated neutropenia (absolute neutrophil count 0/mm3). Family history was negative for GS but revealed a maternal third cousin with osteosarcoma and a maternal second cousin with ALL. The patient denied double vision, decreased vision, and nasal obstruction but did have one episode of epistaxis on the day of admission. There was no known exposure to nickel or significant secondhand smoke exposure. At the time of evaluation he was receiving micafungin for anti-fungal prophylaxis. On physical examination there was a pale gray lesion on the palate suspicious for avascular tissue, versus underlying Gorlin-related cyst. Black debris in the nares was believed to be due to epistaxis; deeper examination revealed grey/brown tissue and nasal polyposis. Because of concerns regarding ionizing radiation, evaluation with MRI was pursued.
MRI demonstrated sharply delineated hypoenhancement of the nasal septum and bilateral inferior turbinates consistent with necrosis, which extended inferiorly to the hard palate and superiorly to the inferior aspect of the sphenoid body (Figures and ). There was no MRI evidence of intracranial extension. There was no significant mucosal swelling or edema, or other mucosal signal abnormalities, on short-tau inversion recovery (STIR) images (). A large cyst centered on the crown of a left maxillary molar consistent with odontogenic cyst extended into and expanded the left maxillary sinus (). Smaller cysts with a similar appearance surrounded the roots of a right maxillary molar (Figures and ) and a mandibular molar (not shown). A right convexity collection consistent with subdural hemorrhage complicated the imaging