A 68-year-old male, formerly a smoker, presented with one-month history of rapidly progressing swelling in the left mandibular region (). There was no other local or systemic complaint. Physical examination revealed a 5 × 5 cm firm, fixed, immobile, mildly tender swelling in region of left mandibular ramus. A firm, 1 × 2 cm, lobular, tender swelling was also noted in the region of left retromolar trigone. There was no other relevant finding on specific ENT and general examination.
FNAC of the swelling was done and reported as myoepithelioma. Meanwhile OPG and CECT parotid regions were ordered. OPG showed an osteolytic lesion involving left ramus of mandible (). CT scan of the parotid region revealed an osteolytic lesion involving inferior middle 3rd of left ramus of the mandible and posterior body of the mandible corresponding to the 3rd molar (). There was erosion and effacement of the adjacent medial, lateral and inferior cortices of the ramus. The lesion involved left alveolar canal. Large soft tissue components extending medially and laterally involving the superficial and deep masticatory spaces were noted. Displacement of left masseter and medial pterygoid muscles was present. Doppler ultrasound of the neck revealed a well-defined soft issue mass lesion in relation to submandibular region with extensive central and peripheral vascularity arising predominantly from external carotid artery.
In view of the rapidly progressing vascular osteolytic lesion arising from within the mandible with normal panendoscopic examination of head and neck, we proceeded for metastatic workup, and FNAC report was put to question as myoepithelioma is a benign lesion both clinically as well as radiologically.
Chest radiogram and CECT brain revealed normal scans. USG abdomen was done that showed a well-defined heterogenous mass (43 × 34 mm) in the right renal pelvis following which CECT abdomen was ordered that defined a well circumscribed mass in right kidney measuring 3.7 × 4.6 cm with stranding of