A 71-year-old male, from urban environment, smoker – 1/2 pack of cigarettes per day for 32 years, occasional alcohol consumption, referred to Coltea Clinical Hospital, E.N.T. Department for the appearance of a tumor mass in the lateral region of the neck, that appeared 1 year prior to the specialist exam, dysphagia, weight loss of 10 kg in the past 5 months. The patient had diabetes mellitus in treatment with oral antidiabetic drugs.
Blood tests revealed an inflammatory syndrome with an erythrocyte sedimentation rate of 24 mm/h and a fibrinogen count of 575 mg/dl and a slightly altered coagulation profile. Imaging studies revealed the presence of the tumor mass in the lateral region of the neck and an ulcerated tumor mass in the thyro-hyoepiglottic lodge. The biopsy from the larynx was positive for infiltrative poorly differentiated squamous cell carcinoma. Panendoscopic examination led to the surgical indication of partial pharyngectomy total laryngectomy, right radical neck dissection and left functional neck dissection.
We operated on the patient removing the tumor by performing a total laryngectomy with partial pharyngectomy, right submaxilectomy, right radical neck dissection, resection of the common carotid artery, resection of the external carotid artery and a tracheostomy ().
We placed a drain tube in the right lateral region of the neck and a nasogastric feeding tube.
Follow-up
The patient was admitted in the ICU for 2 days in order to monitor his medical condition. There were no early complications. Motor functions, cognitive functions or judgment were not impaired after the surgery. The drain tube was removed after 5 days and the sutures after 11 days. Enteral feeding was started 12 hours after the surgery with the removal of the nasogastric tube at 17 days after the surgery when oral feeding was restored. The patient underwent external beam radiation starting at 10 weeks after the surgical procedure with the appearance of dryness in the mouth and the reddening of