A 63-year-old female was admitted to Tokyo Rosai Hospital with discomfort in the right lower quadrant, which the patient had being experiencing since approximately January 2011. Physical examination revealed no tenderness; however, a palpable, fist-sized mass in the right lower quadrant prompted abdominal CT, which revealed a 60-mm cystic mass at the site corresponding to the appendix with calcification in its wall on the appendicular tip. With no thickening or contrast enhancement in the entire wall of the mass, cystadenoma, as opposed to carcinoma was suspected (). Since the possibility of carcinoma could not be ruled out, surgical removal of the mass was recommended; however, the patient refused surgery and was placed on a careful outpatient follow-up program.
Three months later, the patient returned to the hospital. Abdominal CT revealed no changes compared with the previous examination. The patient was advised to return to the outpatient clinic in 3 months; however, the patient did not return. Later, the patient presented with persistent pain in the right lower quadrant, which the patient had experienced since August 2012. On examination, a mass was felt in the right lower quadrant that resembled the one felt previously and tenderness was experienced at the same site. The patient was then admitted for workup. The patient had no history of alcohol or smoking and the prior medical history included surgery for internal hemorrhoids at the age of 59 years. No signifant family history was reported and no oral medication was being used. On admission, the patient had clear sensorium and a blood pressure of 123/73 mmHg, a pulse rate of 60 beats/min (non-arrhythmic) and a body temperature of 37.5°C. The palpebral conjunctiva was not anemic and no yellow discoloration of the bulbar conjunctiva was observed. Heart and breath sounds were noted to be clear. The abdomen was flat and soft with a palpable fist-sized mass present in the right lower quadrant. The mass was slightly hard and minimally movable with tenderness;