In May 2007, a 71-year-old woman was diagnosed with DM because of heliotropic rash over the upper eyelids, edema and erythema at the face and the upper extremities, skeletal muscle pain, and progressive weakness of the proximal muscles of her upper and lower limbs. Laboratory tests showed significant elevation of creatine kinase (3.7 times the normal levels) and anti-Jo1 antibodies positivity. Electromyography findings indicated myositis of the proximal muscles, and the muscle biopsy showed perimysial inflammation. She had been a heavy smoker until the age of fifty (more than 20 cigarettes per day), not addicted to alcohol, and she had a history of hypertensive cardiomyopathy. The patient was treated with systemic steroid therapy with good control of muscle pain and weakness and partial remission of skin rash. In July 2008, she was diagnosed with a carcinoma of the right colon with locoregional lymph node involvement and three liver metastases, all localized in the left lobe. Tumor genetic evaluation showed the presence of the BRAF V600E mutation. She underwent right hemicolectomy, subsequent systemic neoadjuvant chemotherapy with oxaliplatin and capecitabine (XELOX regimen) for 4 cycles with significant shrinkage of liver nodules and, in February 2009, resection of hepatic metastases. Systemic chemotherapy with the same agents was administered for additional 4 cycles after radical hepatectomy. A complete remission of clinical and laboratory signs of DM was also observed upon liver surgery.
The patient had a relapse-free survival of 7 months, until September 2009, when a computed tomography (CT) scan revealed multiple lung metastases. A parallel recurrence of facial erythema, skeletal muscle pain, and weakness of the proximal muscles was observed. Laboratory tests exhibited also elevation of creatine kinase levels and anti-Jo1 antibodies. A 2nd line chemotherapy with 5-fluorouracil, folinic acid, and irinotecan (FOLFIRI regimen) was administered for 5 months with complete remission of lung metastases and DM clinical and laboratory signs. In June 2010, the PET/CT scan