A 63-year-old female patient was admitted to the Galactophore Department, Bao Ji Central Hospital with a huge lump in the left breast. The patient stated that they had identified a thumb-sized lump two years earlier, but that they had ignored it. From July 2011, the patient observed that the lump was growing rapidly; in February 2012 the lump had become so large that the patient’s left chest was entirely covered with a solid, irregularly-shaped, somewhat moveable mass of tremendous size and the patient was barely able to lie in the prone position. Family members then finally convinced the patient to seek medical attention. Upon physical examination, the patient presented with an elastic hard mass in the left breast that was 45 cm in diameter, with a circumference of 97 cm (). Rapid growth had resulted in shiny stretched skin that was translucent, showing underlying extremely enlarged veins with sections of the circuitous veins about to undergo ulceration, although no bleeding or discharge was noted. The lymph nodes in the axillary and other superficial areas were not palpable. The patient’s previous medical history revealed that they had high blood pressure, diabetes and atrial fibrillation. Moreover, the patient had suffered from a cerebral infarction; the patient’s right side was paralyzed and communicative disorders had appeared two years previously. The patient was unable to care for herself due to the cerebral infarction. The patient’s medical history was negative for allergies, smoking, drinking, contagions and serious addiction. Furthermore, there was no family history of breast cancer on either side of the patient’s family.
Due to the non-compressible nature of the mass and the size of the tumor, regular breast examinations, including mammography and ultrasound studies, could not be used, while a computed tomography (CT) scan of the chest revealed a solid mass. Total body scintigraphy was negative. Comprehensive examinations and detailed assessments were additionally performed