A sixty-year-old man was admitted to a hospital because he had fever, dyspnea, cough, and chest pain. The clinical and laboratory exams and chest X-ray confirmed pneumonia. The patient completely recovered after an antibiotic treatment.
The patient reported more than 25 years of alcohol abuse as well as smoking two packs of cigarettes a day and recent hospitalization due to acute pancreatitis. His family history was unremarkable for neoplasms and congenital diseases. Before this hospitalization, he was examined because of suspicion on thyroid gland disease. Also, for some time, he has been taking medications for chronic heart failure disease. He stated slow growth of a neck mass in the last 20 years. Physical examination showed a bilateral enlargement of the retroauricular, occipital, and upper back areas. Patient was 178 cm tall and weighted 76 kg his body mass index was normal (24.0 kg/m2). Laboratory blood analysis revealed elevated concentrations of aspartate aminotransferase (195 U/L), alanine aminotransferase (290 U/L), gamma glutamyltransferase (440 U/L), and C-reactive protein (24.3 mg/L). The blood triglycerides and cholesterol were within normal range. All other laboratory findings were in reference ranges. Based on clinical presentation and patient's history of long time alcohol abuse, the working diagnosis of Madelung's disease was established. The confirmation was made by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). A cervicothoracic MRI showed an accumulation of large, bilateral subcutaneous masses of nonencapsulated adipose tissue in ventral and lateral regions of the neck and especially in a suboccipital region, pushing against the atrophic neck muscles typical of Madelung's disease (). Excision biopsy of the neck adipose mass confirmed adipose tissue mass without malignant transformation. The patient did not have any respiratory or other symptoms associated with Madelung's disease, and therefore, the surgical treatment was not performed. The patient was advised to cease alcohol consumption and to visit the doctor regularly in order to monitor progression of