A 53-year-old Caucasian woman presented to our Emergency Department with acute-onset speech impairment and coordination defects. She awoke in the morning to notice that when she took her dog for a walk that she had difficulty manipulating the leash and felt clumsy with her right hand. She also had difficulty with her memory in that she placed a water bowl down for her dog but forgot to place water in it. She felt disorganized with her thoughts and was concerned enough to call her brother, who noticed that her speech was slurred. Emergency medical services were activated and the patient was brought to PIH Health Hospital. She had no complaints of any headache, double vision, difficulty swallowing, vertigo, numbness, or focal weakness. There was no lapse of consciousness nor were there any drop attacks or history of seizures.
Her past medical history was significant for migraines with occasional visual auras and scoliosis. Family history was remarkable for an elderly grandmother who suffered a stroke. Personal habits included the use of occasional wine without history of tobacco or illicit drug use. Her medications at the time of admission included multivitamin supplements and hormone replacement therapy.
Physical examination revealed an afebrile, normotensive and pleasant woman who appeared her stated age and was in no acute distress. Neck examination did not reveal any carotid bruits and there were no murmurs noted on cardiac examination. Her cardiac rhythm was even.
Neurological examination demonstrated that she was awake and alert on mental status testing with intact recent and remote memory without any formal thought disorders. Speech examination showed some word-finding difficulty with word substitutions and mild stuttering. No dysarthria was noted but it was felt that she had a mild aphasia. Cranial nerves 2 to 12 were all intact without deficits. Motor examination revealed intact strength at 5 out of 5 on the Medical Research Council (MRC) scale throughout without drift, focal atrophy, or fasciculations. No abnormal