A 54-year-old man was referred to our hospital because of a 1-month history of cough. He had smoked one pack of cigarettes per day for the past 20 years. A mass shadow in the hilum of the right lung with an enlarged subcarinal lymph node was found by contrast-enhanced computed tomography (CT) of the chest. A bronchoscopic biopsy yielded the diagnosis of SCC. After metastatic workup with abdominal ultrasonography, magnetic resonance imaging of the brain and bone scan, the patient was staged with T3N1M0 disease. Thereafter he underwent definitive right-middle lobectomy, revealing well- to moderately differentiated SCC and multiple lymph node metastases. He received four cycles of adjuvant chemotherapy comprising taxotere and cisplatin. Five months after his lobectomy, an enlarged mediastinal lymph node was discovered on a routine follow-up chest CT scan. Solitary lymph node recurrence was diagnosed by coincidence circuit single-photon emission CT assessment. The patient then underwent a course of conformal external beam radiation to the mediastinal lymph node at a dosage of 6,000 cGy in 30 fractions. He complained of dysphagia without melena or hematemesis during the fourth week of radiotherapy, which was attributed to radiation esophagitis. However, the patient’s symptoms worsened despite symptomatic treatment. A gastroduodenoscopy performed 10 days after the completion of radiotherapy revealed a giant gastric ulcer in the greater curvature of the stomach with mucosal edema and congestion as well as a huge cauliflower-like mass in the descending part of the duodenum (Figure ). Biopsies of both lesions revealed SCC. On histopathological examination, hematoxylin and eosin–stained sections of gastric and duodenal biopsies revealed typical SCC and large, eosinophilic cells with distinct cell borders growing beneath the normal gastric and duodenal mucosa (Figure ). Keratinization, formation of small horn pearls and malignant squamous cells in capillaries were also observed. The morphology of the gastric and duodenal lesions is similar to that of primary tumor of the lung. To confirm the