A 70-year-old male was admitted to The First Affiliated Hospital of Guangzhou Medical University due to a cough with sputum that had been present for half a month. The patient had a 40-year smoking history. A physical chest examination did not reveal any significant signs of abnormalities and the results of laboratory tests were not indicative of a specific diagnosis. A computed tomography (CT) scan of the chest revealed multiple PNs, with the largest nodule measuring 1.9 cm in its maximum dimension. This nodule was located at the basal segment of left lower lobe. When no improvement was observed following a one-week course of antibiotics, an 18F-FDG-PET/CT scan was performed, which revealed an increased uptake in the largest pulmonary nodule, with a maximum standardized uptake value (SUVmax) of 5.8 (). The two foci were located in the ascending aorta/aortic arch wall and pericardial wall with SUVmax values of 6.4 and 8.3, respectively (). In addition, mediastinal lymph nodes with an SUVmax of 2.5 and other PNs with normal uptakes were observed (). These observations resulted in a diagnosis of lung cancer metastasis being proposed. Following this, a bronchoscopy and a TBLB, guided by X-ray, were performed; however, no positive result was indicated.
To obtain a definitive diagnosis and an appropriate treatment, a VATS lung biopsy was performed, following the provision of signed informed consent from the patient. Three nodules, including the largest nodule, a nodule at the lingular segment of the left upper lobe and a nodule at the pericardial wall, were completely enucleated during one surgical session under the same anesthesia The histological results of the frozen sections obtained from the nodules intraoperatively revealed that the largest nodule was a lung carcinoma, while the remaining nodules were indicative of tuberculosis. The standard treatment of lobectomy with systematic mediastinal, hilar and interlobar lymphadenectomies was completed by VATS. The pathological sections and immunohistochemistry confirmed a diagnosis