A 32-year-old white man presented to a local emergency department with a noticeable puncture wound, progressive swelling, and erythema to the right leg. The injury was sustained when he fell against the metal pedal of his bicycle. After 3 days of hospitalization and multiple courses of antibiotic, a surgical team was consulted for operative debridement of the wound. Diagnosis and confirmation of necrotizing fasciitis by polymicrobial group A streptococcal organisms was made. The resultant surgical debridement of the right posterior leg over the span of 1 week resulted in an open wound extending from the right popliteal fossa to about 8 cm from his right ankle (). After a period of negative pressure wound therapy, the patient was referred to University of California Davis Medical Center for definitive reconstruction of his posterior right leg wound with exposed Achilles tendon. The patient had a history of Hodgkin's lymphoma, currently in remission, and ureteral stone causing hydronephrosis. He had no history of diabetes, alcoholism, or other general medical condition. The patient was a habitual smoker with history of drug abuse. Upon transfer to University of California Davis medical center, he was immediately prepared for free-tissue transfer.
A line was drawn from anterior superior iliac spine to the lateral border of the patella (). This line roughly corresponds to the intermuscular septum between the rectus femoris and the vastus lateralis muscles. Skin vessels supplying the ALT flap are centered along this line or slightly lateral of it. The midpoint of this line, an area where skin perforators are generally located, was marked. Additional perforators were located within 10 cm proximal and distal to the midpoint perforator. At each location, this conventional naming system of skin perforator clusters provides a guideline for vascular localization. A handheld Doppler was used to localize the skin perforators in the anterolateral aspect of the thigh. The required size of the ALT flap was then measured and marked incorporating these perforators.
Examination of the foot revealed palpable dorsalis pedis and posterior tibial vessels and a normal modified lower