An 84 year old lady was referred to a local otolaryngologist-head and neck surgeon for a history of epistaxis, occasional hemoptysis, difficulty swallowing, and a fetid odor. She denied pain or significant distress related to these symptoms. She did not drink, smoke or have any known family history of cancer.
Her medical history included resection of a maxillary sinus mass 45 years prior, in a different country. The patient was unaware of the diagnosis and her previous medical records could not be obtained. The prior surgery left her with a surgical defect in the hard palate.
On presentation, her physical exam revealed numbness in the left V2 distribution as well as left sided proptosis. Extra-ocular movements were normal and palpation of the neck did not reveal any lymphadenopathy. Oral and endoscopic examinations showed a surgical defect in the left hard palate extending into the maxillary sinus and a mass visible in the left nasal cavity and maxillary sinus. The remainder of the upper aerodigestive tract was unremarkable.
Computed tomography of the head and neck revealed a large heterogeneous and vascular mass at the center of the left maxillary sinus with destruction of the medial, inferior and lateral walls; destruction of the left side of the hard palate; infiltration of the pterygopalatine fissure and infratemporal fossa as well as extension into the nasal cavity. The tumour extended into the left ethmoid air cells, breaching the medial wall of the orbit but remained extraconal, without intracranial extension (Figure ). MRI further demonstrated mass effect on the ocular musculature causing proptosis and bilateral prominent retropharyngeal nodes suspicious for nodal metastases. The maximum diameter of the mass was 6.5 cm. There was no evidence of distant metastasis on systemic staging.
Pathologic examination of the biopsy specimen demonstrated small cysts lined by numerous mucous cells, large numbers of polygonal clear cells and smaller intermediate cells with round nuclei and small nucleoli (Figure ). These findings