A 69-year-old Caucasian woman presented with a 2 months history of foreign-body sensation in the throat. She had a negative history for tobacco and alcohol use. The patient underwent regular gynecological examinations and cytological cervical cancer screenings until the age of 64, and no HPV-associated genital lesions or cytological alterations were found. No anogenital tumor had become symptomatically apparent since then and extending also into the follow-up period after treatment of the index throat condition. The patient got infected with hepatitis B virus (HBV) by blood transfusion at the age of 26, and had been treated for lichen ruber planus in the oral cavity at the age of 34. The ENT (Ear Nose and Throat) physical examination revealed an enlarged left tonsil without ulceration. On palpation, the left tonsil was found to be firm to hard in consistency. She did not have any palpable cervical lymphadenopathy. A computed tomography (CT) scan with contrast of the neck confirmed a left tonsillar lesion of 20 × 23 × 26 mm in dimension, extending up to the soft palate, without crossing midline, and down to the glossotonsillar sulcus, and revealed two homogeneously enhancing lymph nodes, with maximum transverse diameters of 13 mm, in the left submandibular triangle. Baseline investigations including complete and differential blood cell count, serum electrolytes, liver and renal function tests, electrocardiogram, and X-ray chest, were well within normal limits. The patient underwent wedge biopsy of the left tonsillar mass. Pathologic review revealed the presence of a poorly differentiated SCC with basaloid features.
The patient underwent left side mandibulotomy, extended radical tonsillectomy and ipsilateral selective neck dissection (levels I-II-III-IV). The surgical defect was reconstructed with a microvascular ulnar forearm flap. Final pathology confirmed an infiltrating, poorly-differentiated SCC of the left tonsil, with tumor measuring 28 mm in greatest dimension and a thickness of 14 mm, abundant comedo-type necrosis and the presence of