The patient is a 20-year-old Caucasian female with a past medical history significant only for anemia who presented to a referring center’s emergency department (ED) with persistent spinal headache following a normal spontaneous vaginal delivery managed with epidural analgesia. She underwent a blood patch on postpartum day 1, which was repeated on postpartum day 3 without relief of her headache. She returned to the ED postpartum day 5 for continued headaches and was admitted for bed rest and caffeine therapy. On the night of admission, the patient started seizing (tonic-clonic) and became apneic requiring intubation and intensive care unit (ICU) admission. The seizures abated before administration of lorazepam, but she had a second seizure and was placed on a midazolam and propofol infusion for sedation and seizure control. In consultation with neurology, she was started on phenytoin and valproic acid. Ceftriaxone and vancomycin were started empirically for meningitis; both were stopped early, because cultures remained negative. A magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) study of her lumbar spine showed a cerebral spinal fluid (CSF) leak with evidence of CSF anterior and posterior to the thecal sac from the upper lumbar spine extending down to the sacrum. A brain MRI demonstrated signs of intracranial hypotension without evidence of hemorrhage. Magnetic resonance venography (MRV) of the brain was negative for venous thrombosis. Neurosurgery was consulted for possible surgical repair of the CSF leak but determined that the leak could be managed medically with bed rest, Trendelenburg positioning, and a larger blood patch. During the next 12–24 hours, the patient continued to present seizures as demonstrated by spot electroencephalography (EEG). Her propofol infusion was increased to 150 μg/kg/min (9 mg/kg/h) in an attempt to achieve epileptic burst suppression. The following day, the patient rapidly developed fluid resistant shock, a severe metabolic acidosis, acute oliguric kidney failure, an elevated creatine kinase, and transaminases. Propofol was discontinued given the concern for possible