An 80-year-old man, affected by coronary artery disease, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, arterial hypertension and dyslipidemia, former heavy smoker, was admitted to our Department on May 5, 2011. Previous Doppler ultrasound exams had shown the presence of an aneurysmatic dilatation of the infra-renal portion of the aorta, which had been followed-up until reaching a maximum diameter of almost 5.2 cm (January 2011). Thus, the patient underwent computed tomography (CT) angiographic imaging, which demonstrated aneurysm sac shrinkage of about 5 × 5.5 cm, with a longitudinal extension of about 8 cm and showed also signs of mural thrombotic apposition of about 3 cm of maximum assial thickness.
Physical examination evidenced a tender and pulsatile abdominal mass, accompanied by the auscultatory finding of a systolic murmur in the paraumbilical region. During the hospitalization, aortic ecotomography was repeated and revealed maximum diameters of the aneurysmatic formation of about 6 × 5.8 cm, confirming the presence of a large, eccentric intra-sac thrombus. The patient also underwent coronary angiography, which showed significant stenosis of the left anterior descending coronary artery and of the circumflex coronary artery, which were judged not amenable of percutaneous treatment. Given the size of the aneurysm sac (and, in particular, the progressive and quick enlargement), the presence of intramural thrombotic burden causing a not trivial potential risk of a severe peripheral embolism and the severe coronary artery disease, we decided to perform EVAR with implantation of an aorto-bisiliac endoprosthesis, using surgical isolation and access of the left common femoral artery and percutaneous access of the right common femoral artery. At the final angiographic control, no endoleak was visible. The following hospital course was completely devoid of complications, without significant post-operative anemia or signs of infections, and the patient was discharged five days after the procedure.
In July 2012, a routine CT control revealed the presence of an apparent type I endoleak. The patient was in