A 57-year-old man, a farmer and heavy smoker (90 to 100 cigarettes a day from the age of 15 years), was referred to our institute for gross haematuria with cloths retention that required an acute catheterisation with bladder irrigation. An ultrasound examination showed papillary neoplasms arising from the posterior-lateral left wall of the bladder.
The patient had suffered lower urinary tract symptoms over the preceding 1 year and seemed cachectic, but had not previously reported weight loss or any other specific complaints. He did have a family history of malignancy though, as his father had developed rectal cancer and his sister had a kidney neoplasm.
He had no signs or symptoms until his physician noticed a hard lump with skin retraction on his left nipple. The patient also had an erythematous nodular skin lesion developing on his forehead. For these lesions, the patient underwent left modified radical mastectomy (based on the Madden technique) with axillary lymph node dissection. Histopathological examination revealed an infiltrating ductal carcinoma (grade III, score 8 according to Nottingham) with metastasis to one of the 11 axillary lymph nodes examined. Approximately 90% of the neoplastic cells stained positive with antibody to the oestrogen receptor, and 20% stained positive with antibody to the progesterone receptor. The proliferative index using a Ki-67 monoclonal antibody was 10%. HER-2/neu was not over-expressed (Figure ). The nodular skin lesion was completely resected, and histopathological examination revealed it to be a SCC (grade II), infiltrating the hypodermis (Figure ). Immediately after these surgical procedures, the patient was hospitalised in our institution where a cystoscopy was performed confirming ultrasound findings of multiple bladder papillary lesions arising from the posterior-lateral left wall, with a large base plant and active bleeding. A trans-urethral resection of the bladder lesion (TURB) was performed at the same time in which the neoplasm was completely excised. Subsequent histopathological examination showed a grade 3 papillary TCC that was in the process