A 32-year-old man was referred to the emergencies of our hospital because of a right lower limb critical limb ischemia. Past medical history included chronic alcoholism and a three-month history of bilateral intermittent claudication. He did not report any episode of superficial thrombophlebitis. He smoked about 10 cigarettes since the age of ten and 10 cannabis joints daily since the age of twelve. He had no other cardiovascular risk factors. At clinical examination, his right leg was extremely painful and pale. He had absent pedal pulses on both sides, and a mild sensory loss on the right side. Allen's test of upper extremities was negative. Echo Doppler was suggestive of a bilateral common iliac occlusion and of a three-vessel occlusion on the right leg. A computerized tomography (CT) angiography detected the presence of an intraluminal aortic and iliac clot () and a bilateral distal tibial vessels occlusion (). The patient was then fully anticoagulated with intravenous heparin. A transthoracic echocardiogram was also performed and did not detect any proximal source of emboli. The patient was then operated on: under general anesthesia, a right iliofemoral embolectomy associated to a selective right popliteal, tibial, and peroneal embolectomy and intraoperative intraarterial thrombolysis of tibial vessels. During the operation, no thrombus was found in the infrapopliteal vessels, but intraoperative arteriography showed a diffuse narrowing associated to total occlusion at the ankle with the typical “corkscrew” collateral arteries suggestive of a chronic vasculitis (). BD was then suspected. The postoperative period was uneventful, with complete remission of symptoms. The aortoiliac embolus was sent to bacteriology and some Micrococci were found. Subsequently, the patient was treated with medical therapy including full dose low molecular weight heparin, antiplatelets, and pentoxifylline, and a smoking-cessation program was started. A control thoracic and abdominal angio-CT scan, done also in order to detect a proximal source of embolism, showed the absence of residual aortoiliac clot,