A 37-year-old Turkish woman was referred to the department of oral surgery because of pigmented areas in her mouth. She had noticed the pigmented lesions in her oral cavity 3 years ago and till the beginning of the treatment no major change in the oral cavity was observed by the patient. Oral examination revealed multiple, painless brown-black pigmentation, on the buccal mucosa, lower lip and posterior of the palate, bilaterally (). No cutaneous or fingernail lesions were observed. She was systemically healthy and was not on any medication. She was neither a smoker nor a habitual drinker of alcohol. There was no family history of abnormal mucocutaneous pigmentation.
Laboratory investigation results, including a full blood count, hematinic levels, serum chemistry and inflammatory markers, were all within normal range. The patient underwent an upper gastrointestinal endoscopy, as well as a colonoscopy, which revealed no evidence of polyps. To rule out Addisons disease, the serum cortisol and adrenocorticotrophic hormone (ACTH) levels were measured and the values were normal. A biopsy was taken from the buccal mucosa with the aim of excluding melanoma. Histopathological examination revealed lentiginous proliferation of melanocytes. Inflammatory changes or malignant features were not noted in any area. A diagnosis of LH syndrome was made based on the clinical presentation of lesions coupled with the absence of systemic findings.
An Er:YAG laser with a wavelength of 2940 nm (Fotona Fidelis Plus III, Slovenia) was used because of its capability of superficially ablating oral soft tissues to treat oral pigmentation, especially on the lips, soft palate, and buccal mucosa, bilaterally. The parameters used were 120 mJ output energy, 10 Hz frequency, 1000 μs pulse duration, and a 0.8 mm spot size with the noncontact hand-piece. The fluence was 25 J/cm2 and the lasing was continued until the pigmentation on the intervention area was visibly ablated as there is no accumulation of