A 25-year-old healthy Caucasian woman presented with a metal ceramic restoration on the left maxillary central incisor, that did not satisfy her esthetic demands anymore. In addition, the patient was feeling a dull pain in the area. The patient did not smoke and was healthy. The radiographic examination showed an oversized cast post and core, which occupied three quarters of the root's length (). The clinical examination revealed that the metal ceramic restoration was fractured at the buccal marginal area, it had a surface texture that did not match that of the adjacent natural teeth, it was rather opaque, and its margins were placed on the underlying cast post and core instead of on sound tooth structure (). Soft tissue inflammation was evident around the crown's marginal area. An 8 mm pocket depth was found at the distal area of the tooth. The examination also demonstrated a discrepancy of the soft tissue contours between the two central incisors, sufficient width of keratinized tissue in the maxillary anterior area and a scalloped thin periodontium [–].
Treatment options were presented to the patient after assessment of all clinical and radiographic data. The patient wished to restore the failing tooth with an implant-supported restoration.
Prior to implant surgery, preliminary impressions were obtained by using irreversible hydrocolloid impression material. Diagnostic casts for both the maxillary and mandibular arches were fabricated with type III dental stone and they were mounted in maximal intercuspal position on a semiadjustable articulator. A diagnostic waxing was made and the maxillary cast was duplicated. A surgical stent was then fabricated with clear autopolymerizing polymethyl-methacrylate resin. The tooth's cingulum area was marked and an access channel was opened with a 261E-023 laboratory carbide bur (Brasseler, USA). A provisional restoration was also fabricated by using autopolymerizing acrylic resin (GC Unifast III, GC Tokyo, Japan). Two acrylic resin retainers resting on the palatal surfaces of