A 57-year-old Caucasian man with a smoking habit who had a history of hypertension and dyslipidemia as well as a family history of thoracic aortic dissection presented to a community hospital complaining of sudden onset of chest discomfort and dyspnea. He was diaphoretic, with blood pressure of 114/60mmHg and no pulse deficit, heart rate of 114 beats per minute and respiratory rate of 20 breaths per minute. In addition, he required oxygen by nasal cannula to maintain oxygen saturation above 90%. He had a large-volume central pulse, no extra heart sounds and soft systolic and early diastolic murmurs over the aortic valve. His jugular venous pressure was 4cm above the sternal angle, and he had crackles at both lung bases. There were no features suggestive of Marfan syndrome or connective tissue diseases. The initial emergency work-up included an electrocardiogram (EKG), which showed left ventricular hypertrophy with repolarization abnormalities; a chest X-ray with increased interstitial markings suggesting acute pulmonary edema; a troponin I level of 0.41μg/L; and a brain natriuretic peptide level of 487ng/L.
On the basis of the patient’s abrupt onset of symptoms, family history of aortic dissection and findings consistent with acute aortic insufficiency (large-volume pulse, early diastolic murmur and heart failure), an emergent contrast-enhanced CT scan was obtained (Figure ). This scan showed a 5cm aortic root aneurysm but no aortic dissection. The patient was treated medically for acute coronary syndrome and heart failure, including dual anti-platelet therapy and anti-coagulation. He was subsequently transferred to a tertiary care hospital. Because of the high clinical suspicion of an acute aortic dissection based on his family history, sudden onset chest discomfort and findings of acute aortic insufficiency and heart failure [], a transesophageal echocardiogram was taken, even in light of the negative CT scan (Figure ). This test demonstrated an aortic dissection flap confined to the aortic root, superior to the aortic valve and associated