A 33-year-old nullipara, 38 weeks pregnant, was scheduled for elective cesarean section under spinal anesthesia due to a previous laparoscopic myomectomy. Past medical history was otherwise unremarkable, with no smoking nor alcohol or drug consumption. Routine blood tests, including coagulation status, were normal. After obtaining informed consent and following a 1000 mL i.v. bolus of crystalloid solution, the procedure was performed in the seated position. The subarachnoid space was reached at L3-L4 level at first attempt, using a 25G Sprotte needle, and 10 mg of 0.5% plain bupivacaine administered. The patient was then placed in supine position for C-section. Blood loss during the operation was estimated to be 200 mL and further 500 mL of crystalloids was infused. Hemodynamic parameters were normal and stable during surgery. No vasoactive drug was administered. A healthy, normal baby (male, 2830 g) was delivered with Apgar scores 9 at 1 min and 10 at 5 min.
The clinical course in the early postoperative hours was uneventful. During the 1st day in the obstetric ward 2000 mL of fluids was administered. In the absence of known risk factors for DVT no anticoagulant prophylaxis was given. The following morning the patient complained of nausea without vomiting. While attempting to get out of bed, about 30 hours after surgery, the patient complained of an acute back pain starting from the lumbar region and irradiating upwards along the spine, followed by a severe occipital headache and sudden loss of consciousness. She was brought to the ICU, where she appeared drowsy and bradipnoic. Neurological examination showed anisocoria (right > left). An emergency cranial tomography (CT) revealed an acute subdural hematoma, 12 mm thick, on the convexity of the right hemisphere, with a 10 mm midline shift, compressing the right ventricular system (). The patient was transferred to the Neurosurgical Department where a cerebral angiography excluded an associated aneurysm or arteriovenous malformation. An