A 55-year-old male smoker presented with typical anginal chest pain for three days. Upon arrival to the emergency room, pain was slightly improved and found to have NSTEMI with normal electrocardiogram and elevated troponins. The physical examination was unremarkable. The past medical history was significant for hypertension, dyslipidemia, and chronic ITP which responded to steroids and immunoglobulins in the past. Laboratory blood tests revealed a hemoglobin level of 15 mg/dL, platelet count of 42 × 109/L, and normal PTT and PT. He was admitted to the coronary care unit and was started on simvastatin and nitroglycerin and clopidogrel was held. The patient was given one dose of IVIG and was started on prednisone. On the 7th day of hospitalization, the platelet count was 208 × 109/L and the patient underwent cardiac catheterization through the right femoral artery. A drug eluted stent was placed in the obtuse marginal and a therapeutic ACT was reached after heparin administration. On the 8th day of hospitalization, the patient was discharged on aspirin 325 mg, clopidogrel 75 mg, and prednisone. Patient tolerated these medications well and remained in remission.
After six years, he presented again to the hospital with NSTEMI. The episode occurred one day after receiving dexamethasone and rituximab for ITP relapse. The physical exam was unremarkable and the platelet count was 23 × 109/L. He received in the emergency room nitroglycerin and morphine as well as aspirin 81 mg and the patient was started on IV dexamethasone and IVIG. On the fifth day, the platelet count was 180 × 109/L and the patient underwent cardiac catheterization through the femoral artery. Ostial triple vessel disease was treated with off pump bypass surgery with heparin to maintain an ACT > 300 through the procedure. The platelet count was 149 × 109/L after receiving two days of dexamethasone and the patient was discharged on aspirin 325 mg orally daily. Both patients were followed up for two years without further complications.