A 23 years old female presented to the emergency department with acute bilateral hearing loss. Her problem had first started 3 days ago by hearing a non-pulsatile sound and tinnitus in both ears. Her hearing had been progressively decreasing and worsened markedly within the next 3 days. She denied any ear pain and drainage, headache, vertigo or oral lesion and did not have fever and chills. There was no history of antecedent fluctuating hearing loss, head trauma, acoustic trauma, allergic rhinitis, sinusitis or recurrent urinary tract infection. She reported acute watery diarrhea in the past week. She had history of a rhinoplasty surgery 9 months previously. Initial history revealed no regular medication use. The patient did not smoke and did not use alcohol or illicit substances.
The patient was alert and nervous. She could not hear verbal communication clearly, thus the physician used handwritten notes to communicate with the patient and vice versa. Her vitals were as follows: body temperature was 37.4°C, blood pressure was 110/65 mm Hg, heart rate was 100 beats per minute, and her respiratory rate was 18 breaths per minute. General physical examination was normal except for mild tenderness of both feet to light touch. The otoscopic examination of both ear canals and tympanic membranes were normal. There was no tragus tenderness. She had negative whisper sign on both sides. A complete neurologic examination was done and was normal.
The patient was admitted to the ear, nose and throat ward with impression of sudden bilateral sensorineural hearing loss ematologic lab tests and biochemistry were done and all parameters were in normal range. She was negative for rheumatoid factor and had normal erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR) and C-reactive protein (CRP) levels. Audiometry of both ears confirmed SNHL (30-dB hearing loss at 3 consecutive frequencies).
The initial empiric treatment was started immediately and included: bilateral intratympanic dexamethasone, oral prednisolone and oral acyclovir. There was no significant improvement by