A 17-year-old adolescent male patient applied to Marmara University, Faculty of Dentistry, with complaints in mastication, speech, and aesthetics; dryness on the oral mucosa, and thermal hypersensitivity. Moreover, he was depressed about his appearance of his teeth, thus affecting his social life.
According to his medical history, at the age of 12 the patient had noticed a solid swelling on the left side of his neck and lesion was diagnosed as NPC by incisional biopsy. Following 6-month period chemotherapy regime, 3-month of radiotherapy was accomplished. He has been under the routine control of his oncologist. During the oncologic treatment, tooth brushing was prohibited and he has not performed any oral hygiene procedures since then. Moreover, the patient was neither referred to a dentist nor informed about any oral hygiene instructions until applying to our clinic. The patient disregarded the cautions of the physicians and started smoking nearly 15 cigarettes a day and the body mass index was 16.3 kg/m2 regarded as underweight [].
The patient exhibited heavy plaque accumulation, xerostomia, and excessive dental caries (), as well as moderate gingival inflammation with no periodontal attachment loss. There was limited mouth opening with 25 mm interincisal distance. The radiographic examination revealed that the teeth 14, 24, 25, 26, and 36 had periapical lesions, teeth 27 and 37 were impacted, and altered teeth development was observed in teeth 37 and 47 due to oncologic treatment [] ().
Following the oral examination, the patient was referred to his oncologist for consultation. The physician reported that he did not have any current signs or symptoms of NPC, so there was no contraindication for any dental or surgical treatments and there was no need for antibiotic prophylaxis.
A sequential multidisciplinary treatment that consisted of the extraction of the hopeless teeth, initial periodontal therapy (IPT), endodontic treatments, preprosthodontic periodontal surgery, and full mouth fixed prosthetic restorations