A 20-year-old male presented following a motor vehicle accident. His physical findings included a right-sided tension pneumothorax which was treated with a chest tube, subcutaneous emphysema, and left clavicle fracture. CT of the thoracic spine revealed a longitudinal defect in the posterior membranous wall of his trachea extending into the carina (). With an impending respiratory failure and the possibility of mediastinitis and subsequent sepsis with nonoperative management, it was decided to operate upon the tracheal tear. His past medical history included reflux disease, smoking, and alcohol consumption but no major cardiopulmonary problems. His vital signs were stable so far. The airway was anesthetized in preparation for an awake oral fiberoptic bronchoscopy and a radial arterial line was placed preoperatively. He was then transferred to the operating room and midazolam was titrated for sedation and anxiolysis. With the patient still awake, flexible bronchoscopy was performed to evaluate the posterior pharynx and arytenoids and to remove blood and debris from the airway. The bronchoscope was advanced into the left main-stem bronchus and a reinforced 7.5 size endotracheal tube was placed. The intubation was followed by induction using propofol, fentanyl, and cisatracurium and he was then placed on the ventilator thus ensuing one-lung ventilation via selective bronchial intubation. Due to the short length of the reinforced tube, it was replaced with a regular 7.5 size tube using a tube exchanger. He was then maintained under general anesthesia using sevoflurane with end-expiratory concentration of approximately 2%. Ventilator parameters included a tidal volume of 500 mL (approximately 7 mL/kg), a 12–14 cycles/min respiratory rate, and inspired oxygen fraction 0.55–0.7% and his oxygen saturation was maintained between 96 and 99%.
During the surgery, while briefly holding respirations, the endotracheal tube was withdrawn and a bronchoscope was used to visualize and assess the extent of the tear. A 9 to 10 cm long longitudinal tear was seen on the posterior membranous portion of the