Mr B was a 62 year old normally fit and active man who was referred to the chest clinic for an ovoid lesion on his chest X ray. He initially presented to another district general hospital 1 year prior with fever and abnormality on chest radiograph (). At that time the lesion was aspirated and thought be an abscess. He was treated with antibiotics and discharged. The aspirate showed no organisms and no malignant cells.
He then represented to his general practitioner ten months later who referred him to our chest clinic. He presented with a six week history of cough and some left sided chest discomfort. There was no history of sputum production. His weight and appetite were stable and there were no fevers, night sweats or haemoptysis.
He was an ex-smoker having smoked heavily in the past. There was no known asbestos exposure. He had no significant past medical or family history and he currently lived with his male partner and was still working for a leading supermarket.
On examination there was no finger clubbing or lymphadenopathy. Chest examination revealed reduced breath sounds at the left base.
Chest radiography and CT examination ((a),(b),(c)) revealed a 10 cm ovoid lesion in the left lower lobe adjacent to the pleura. The penetration suggested it was a fluid filled structure. A similar looking lesion was also noted in the left adrenal (). He underwent a fibre-optic bronchoscopy. Some brown adherent material was seen at the orifice of the posterior and lateral segment of the left lower lobe. Washings and biopsies were taken. Cytology and microbiology were all negative for malignancy. He also underwent aspirations of the left lower lobe lesion and adrenal lesion. Only blood was aspirated and cytology was once again negative. HIV test was performed and was negative.
A few weeks later he developed a painful 5 cm left axillary lymph node and had this biopsied too. The biopsy confirmed metastatic adenocarcinoma suggestive of primary lung origin (). At this stage his performance status