A 46-year-old woman of Greek ethnicity was admitted to the emergency room at our institution because of a retrosternal pain episode 90 minutes before admission that lasted approximately 10 minutes. Additionally, the patient reported two transient episodes of chest pain during the previous 24 hours. The duration of each episode was estimated to be between two and ten minutes, and spontaneous resolution was reported. During these episodes, the symptoms included chest discomfort with radiation to the back, malaise, nausea and sweating. Our patient had no prior history of cardiac disease, coagulation disorders or drug abuse, and she mentioned only one cardiovascular risk factor (smoking). From her medical history, we found that she is a heterozygous carrier of β-thalassemia. She reported having gastric sarcoma with metastatic peritoneal infiltrates. We had performed a subtotal gastrectomy on her for this reason 2 months prior to her current presentation. Treatment with oral capecitabine (1500mg twice daily) was initiated 48 hours before she was admitted to our hospital. The echocardiogram taken in the emergency room was within the normal limits, including a sinus heart rate of about 62 beats per minute (bpm) and physiological hemodynamic parameters and negative biochemical markers for myocardial necrosis (including cardiac troponin I (CTnI), creatine phosphokinase, creatine kinase isoenzyme MB, lactate dehydrogenase, and serum glutamic oxaloacetic transaminase). She was transferred to the coronary intensive care unit (ICU) for further observation. The echocardiogram, which was performed when the patient was pain-free, revealed normal ventricular volume, no segmentary wall hypokinesia with a left ventricular ejection fraction of 72%, normal diastolic heart function, normal valve flow and absence of pericardial effusion (Figure ). Taking into account the patient’s Thrombolysis in Myocardial Infarction score for unstable angina, which was very low, she continued taking capecitabine under uninterrupted monitoring []. The cardiac enzymes for the next 24 hours were also negative for myocardial necrosis, and consecutive electrocardiogram (ECG) readings showed no repolarization abnormalities. Thirty