A 27-year-old Hispanic man with no significant prior medical history presented to the emergency room with shortness of breath and a cough for three weeks. He also complained of mild precordial chest pain and generalized fatigue. His family history was contained type 2 diabetes mellitus in both parents but reported no history of cancer or genetic diseases. His social history revealed that he worked as a gardener, was married with two kids, was a non-smoker, occasionally consumed alcohol and had no history of drug abuse. He gave no history of any psychological illnesses. A physical exam revealed sinus tachycardia, distant heart sounds and elevated jugular venous pressure and a normal blood pressure. Chest X-ray showed an impressive mediastinal enlargement. Transthoracic echocardiogram (TTE) showed a large pericardial effusion (
) and collapse of the right atrium during diastole along with respirophasic changes consistent with cardiac tamponade physiology. The patient underwent an emergent therapeutic pericardiocentesis that yielded hemorrhagic fluid. Cytological analysis of the fluid revealed no malignant cells. Computed tomography (CT) of the chest showed persistent pericardial effusion and a left anterior mediastinal mass (
). Work-up for possible metastases performed using Gallium scintigraphy showed no evidence of involvement of any other organs. Left anterior thoracotomy, pericardial window and left anterior mediastinotomy were done, revealing a well-encapsulated gelatinous tumor originating from the pericardium. The tumor grew from the inner surface of the pericardium near the origin of the superior vena cava and ascending aorta (
). A portion of the pericardium where the tumor was attached was resected and the tumor was biopsied. Complete resection was not attempted due to the proximity and attachment to the great vessels.
Review of pathology on routine hematoxylin-eosin stain showed that the tumor was monophasic and was composed of numerous spindle to oval cells in a fascicular growth pattern. The cells showed scant cytoplasm, oval to spindle nuclei with granular chromatin and with inconspicuous nucleoli (
). The tumor was mitotic