An 80-year-old Japanese female presented with a four-week history of right nasal discharge, nasal obstruction and left neck swelling. The patient was a non-smoker with a history including left traumatic blindness, chronic renal disorder (estimated glomerular filtration rate on admission, 30.3 ml/min), hypertension and diabetes mellitus. Physical examination demonstrated an easy-bleeding tumor in the right nasal cavity () and swelling of the left medial and inferior cervical lymph nodes (diameter, 3 and 2 cm, respectively).
Computed tomography scanning revealed a huge lesion occupying the nasal cavity and paranasal sinus that had destroyed the posterior and medial walls of the maxillary antrum (). There was direct extension into the right ethmoidal air cells, but no extension to the floor of the orbit, skull base or hard palate. Fluorodeoxyglucose-positron emission tomography (FDG-PET) showed high accumulation in the primary tumor, with a maximum standardized uptake value (SUVmax) of 9.63 (). The SUVmax of FDG-PET in the left medial and inferior cervical LNs was also high (6.90 and 4.62, respectively; ), although there was no definitive lesion in the right cervical LNs or distant metastasis.
The tumor in the right nasal cavity was biopsied using forceps, but the pathological examination resulted in necrotic tissue with suppurative granulation. It is unclear whether the biopsy revealed the presence of necrotic tissue or whether the biopsy procedure itself caused the necrotic tissue. An incisional biopsy of the left cervical lymphadenopathy and the right maxillary antral lesion was therefore carried out via the canine fossa. Pathological examination revealed a highly malignant anaplastic tumor. Under hematoxylin-eosin stain, two components could be observed in the lesions: SqCC and small cells containing chromatin-rich nuclei with scanty cytoplasm undergoing apoptosis and mitosis (). To characterise the cells, an immunohistochemical examination was performed. On evaluation of specimens from the right maxillary sinus, small cells were positive for the epithelial marker cytokeratin CAM5.