A 62-year-old female with no past medical history presented to the emergency department after a one-month history of progressive left-sided numbness, weakness, and unsteady gait. She had also experienced multiple falls and bladder incontinence over the past two weeks. She complained of frequent throbbing headaches in the occipital area that were not relieved by analgesics. The patient denied fever, chills, confusion, visual changes, or seizures. She had not sought any medical attention prior to this point and was not on any medication. She was of Portuguese origin and was married with two adult children. She had previously worked as a salesperson. She had never smoked and had no history of illicit drug or alcohol use. She denied recent travel, sick contacts, or exposure to wildlife. Family history was unremarkable.
On examination, she was alert and oriented to person, time, and place. Some slight left-sided tongue deviation as well as decreased motor strength in the left upper and lower extremities was noted, including a mild drift of the left arm. Deep tendon reflexes were found to be normal. She had diminished light touch on the left side. Pupils were equal and reactive and extraocular movements were fully intact. Blood pressure was 145/75 mm Hg. Her lab work on admission was found to be normal, including a white blood cell count of 9000 cells/μL. Her electrocardiogram showed normal sinus rhythm. Computed tomography (CT) scan of the head outlined an area of diminished attenuation in the high right parietal lobe that was suspicious for edema. No midline shift or mass lesions were noted.
Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) was performed to better characterize the CT findings (). Multiple abnormal areas were seen throughout the periventricular and subcortical white matter of the bilateral cerebral hemispheres, including the right parietal lobe region. No enhancement was noted in these areas, making malignancy less likely. The ventricles were normal in size and configuration. Carotid Doppler ultrasounds did not show significant