A 41-year-old Hispanic female presented to the emergency room with abdominal pain, progressive distension, nausea and vomiting, and occasionally bloody stools for 2 months. She had an episode of melena one day prior to admission. Surgical history included a tubal ligation. She denied smoking, allergies, and medications as well as positive family history of cancer. On clinical examination, she had abdominal distension and mild generalized tenderness without peritoneal signs. The rectal examination was unremarkable. Hemoccult blood was negative. A contrast CT scan of the abdomen and pelvis revealed mild atelectasis in the lung bases, moderate distension of the gall bladder, and an apple core lesion in the distal descending colon measuring 3.4 cm long resulting in prominent dilation of the colon and small bowel proximal to this lesion. The colon distal to the lesion was not distended. There was also mild ascites. All laboratories including her basic metabolic panel, liver function tests, complete blood count, α-fetoprotein (AFP), and carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) were within normal limits. She was started on pantoprazole and enoxaparin for deep venous thrombosis prophylaxis after an active bleeding was ruled out. A nasogastric tube was placed, but there was no fluid obtained. A flexible sigmoidoscopy was performed which revealed an obstructive mass that made evaluation of the colon above the mass impossible. Multiple biopsies were taken and displayed features that resembled adenocarcinoma of the colon.
She underwent surgical exploration. Intraoperative findings revealed an indurated, thick, obstructive lesion in the descending colon which was edematous but without perforation. A partial colectomy with end to end anastomosis was done.
The surgery and postoperative course were uneventful. The histologic examination was consistent with colonic adenocarcinoma, with no perineural or vascular invasion noted. There was one positive lymph node out of 28 for metastatic tissue, and the specimen's margins were free of tumor. After the initial Hematoxylin and Eosin staining was performed, the clear cell variant was considered (). Subsequently,