Unemployed, single, 26-year-old woman, with a qualification in catering industry, living with parents, was admitted for treatment to the Institute of Mental Health in Belgrade after one of her multiple suicide attempts by self-poisoning with benzodiazepines. She had been repeatedly hospitalized since she was 16, at first because of polysubstance abuse and later because of self-destructive behaviour, affective instability, and impulsiveness, and had been diagnosed with BPD. Over the past few years psychotropic medications were discontinued. However, she was unable to get a job and establish an emotional relationship. One year prior to admission to the the latest hospitalization, she started abusing benzodiazepines and alcohol again, culminating in a fall and short hospitalization for brain commotion with normal computerised tomography of brain. Afterwards, there were no signs of acute or chronic complications of craniocerebral injury nor emotional and behavioural changes regarding prior state. We acquired data that her mother had a virus infection in the first trimester of pregnancy with scanty hemorrhage. Delivery was vaginal with labour induction, and the baby girl had a pronounced physiological jaundice. Because of hypotonia, rehabilitation was performed. She was able to stand on her own at 15 months and to walk at 18 months and was not manually dexterous. Convergent strabismus was operated when she was two years old. Her attachment pattern was ambivalent. There is a positive heredity on her father's side: one uncle is being treated for depressive disorder and another one for bipolar affective disorder.
Upon admission, the patient showed difficulty in fitting in and it was impossible to establish a therapeutic alliance. She manifested affective instability, was irritable, and verbalised suicidal ideas. During therapeutic weekends she stereotypically inflicted self-harm by cutting her forearm skin and by pressing cigarette butts in her hand dorsum.
Physical examination has not shown any signs of illnesses and common laboratory test values were within reference values. Thyroid function