The patient is a 68-year-old lady with a past medical history significant for hypertension, hyperlipidemia, and hypothyroidism who presented with complaints of lower abdominal pain, diarrhea, and bright red blood per rectum. She was a retired medical assistant who had quit smoking 3-4 weeks prior to presentation after having smoked half pack a day for 30 years. Her home medications included lisinopril, simvastatin, aspirin, levothyroxine, and calcium and vitamin D supplementation. Her review of systems was positive for mild intermittent dry cough for the past 1.5 months. She denied fever, chills, weight loss, productive cough, hemoptysis, night sweats, and changes in urinary habits. She had unlimited exercise tolerance. Her physical examination in the emergency department was unremarkable except for mild tenderness to palpation over the lower abdomen. A computed tomography (CT) scan of the abdomen showed sigmoid and distal ascending colon colitis and incidentally identified a right hilar mass. The mass was in the superior segment of the right lower lobe and extended throughout the lower lobe along the pulmonary vessels (). The central part of the mass was enhancing with hypodensity noted peripherally suggestive of necrosis. The dominant portion of the mass measured up to 6 cm transverse × 3.4 cm antero-posterior. The tracheobronchial tree was found to be patent. An additional irregular, pleural based mass in the superior segment of the right lower lobe was also identified which measured 3.9 cm transverse × 1.5 cm anteroposterior. An additional pleural nodularity was noted in the inferior portion of the right lower lobe. These findings were highly suggestive of a right lower lobe malignancy. There was no significant mediastinal, axillary, or hilar adenopathy noted except for a subcarinal (9 mm in short axis) and paratracheal lymph node (5 mm in short axis). She underwent bronchoscopy which showed a friable exophytic endobronchial mass in the right lower lobe at 1 cm from the bronchus intermedius, rest