This is a case of a 66-year-old man who presented with bright red blood per rectum for approximately two months. He has a past medical history significant for benign prostatic hypertrophy and obstructive sleep apnea, and his only surgery was a vasectomy. He reported being a social drinker and previously smoked but quit more than 30 years ago. The patient was adopted; however, he is aware of his biologic mother who had an unknown gynecological cancer resulting in death. He also has multiple maternal uncles who died from cancer of an unknown etiology with the earliest death between 30 and 40 years of age. His physical exam was normal. A recent colonoscopy demonstrated a 3 cm friable mass in the transverse colon at approximately 70 cm. There was a polyp in the cecum which measured 4 mm, polyps in the ascending colon measuring 1.5 cm and 4 mm, and a polyp in the sigmoid colon measuring 8 mm. Histologically, he had an invasive adenocarcinoma arising from a tubular adenoma in the transverse colon. There were findings of tubular adenomas with high grade dysplasia in the descending colon as well as tubular adenomas in the sigmoid and ascending colon. A carcinoembryonic antigen level was normal, and a CT scan of the chest, abdomen, and pelvis was only significant for circumferential wall thickening in the transverse colon. The patient underwent a subtotal abdominal colectomy, removing all lesions. The pathological evaluation identified moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma of the transverse colon with twenty-three benign lymph nodes.
Due to the patient's cancer in the transverse colon, with another synchronous high grade dysplastic lesion in the descending colon, and a maternal history of a young gynecologic cancer, genetic analysis of the patient's germline and tumor was performed. Results were obtained from the Molecular Oncology and Cancer Genetics Laboratory, Huntington Medical Research Institute, Pasadena, CA. DNA sequencing of the patient's germline identified a cytosine (C) to thymine (T) transition at codon 414, exon 9, and c.1240 C > T, heterozygous in one