A 52-year-old woman was referred to Yeouido St. Mary’s Hospital, Republic of Korea for evaluation of an incidentally found right lower lobe lung mass. The patient had a history of hypertension and denied recent weight loss or smoking. The patient’s initial laboratory findings were unremarkable, and the results of a pulmonary function test were normal. A chest computed tomography (CT) scan revealed a relatively well-circumscribed and enhanced mass involving the visceral pleura in the right lower lobe, and no mediastinal lymphadenopathy (Figure ). The mass was biopsied under video-assisted thoracoscopic surgery, and an intraoperative pathologic diagnosis revealed malignant lung cancer. The patient underwent right lower lobectomy and mediastinal lymph node dissection. A histopathological examination disclosed ACC with a cribriform and tubular pattern; metastasis was not found in the dissected lymph nodes. For confirmation of a primary or metastatic tumor, an otolaryngologic examination and whole-body positron emission tomography (PET) were performed after lobectomy (Figure ). The patient was diagnosed with primary peripheral pulmonary ACC because of no evidence of salivary gland tumor or other metastasis; neither radiotherapy nor chemotherapy was performed after lobectomy.
During follow-up, the patient was diagnosed and treated for transitional cell cancer of the bladder. Recurrence of the bladder cancer was suspected at 27 months after the pulmonary operation, and a whole-body PET scan showed an enlarged and increased uptake pattern of both parotid nodules without recurrence in the lung (Figure ). The bladder nodule was benign and the parotid nodules disclosed ACC of the tongue with metastasis to the parotid lymph node. The otolaryngologist performed wide excision of the tongue cancer. The pathologic diagnosis was ACC of the tongue; identical to those of the resected right lower lobe lung mass taken 27 months previously (Figure ). After 5 weeks of adjuvant chemoradiation therapy, the patient remained in good health and with no detectable recurrence at 7 months of follow-up.