We present the case of a 67-year-old man who presented to the outpatient clinic with urinary frequency, and urgency, and incontinence. He reported having these symptoms for the last one year. Recently, his symptoms worsened and he needed to void every two hours and had nocturia multiple times a day. There was no history of difficulty with voiding, poor or intermittent urine stream, or postvoid dribbling.
His past medical history is remarkable for long-standing hypertension, diabetes mellitus, and dyslipidemia. He has been on amlodipine 5 mg once a day, metformin 1000 mg three times a day, and atorvastatin 20 mg once a day. He did not undergo any previous surgical operations. He worked as an accountant. He had smoked 10 cigarettes daily for the last 20 years. He consumed alcohol occasionally. The family history was non-contributory.
Upon examination, the abdomen was soft with no tenderness or palpable masses. Digital rectal examination revealed no enlargement of the prostate. Examination of other systems was normal. The prostate-specific antigen level was 2.1 ng/ml. Urinalysis findings were normal. Urine culture revealed no significant growth. Basic laboratory investigations were within the normal limits (Table ). In order to provide symptomatic treatment, the patient was prescribed anticholinergic medication (fesoterodine 4 mg) and he was given a follow-up visit eight weeks later.
In the subsequent visit, the patient reported progression of his symptoms and he started to have urge incontinence. The urodynamic analysis confirmed the presence of involuntary contractions of the detrusor muscles during the filling phase representing detrusor instability and overactive bladder. An abdominal CT scan was performed to rule out any structural abnormalities as an etiology of the overactive bladder.
The CT scan demonstrated a large retroperitoneal circumscribed low attenuation lesion consistent with lipoma. The lesion was extending into the pelvic cavity and exerting a pressure effect on the bladder (Figures , ). Subsequently, the patient was planned for an elective