A 63 year-old man was transferred to our emergency department for significant gastrointestinal bleeding. Upon arrival, the patient was awake but not oriented. His vital signs included a respiratory rate of 40/min, a pulse of 121 beats/min, a blood pressure of 105/38 mmHg and 100% oxygen saturation at 2 L/min per nasal cannula. Physical examination showed a pale appearing male in severe distress but was otherwise unremarkable. A complete blood count revealed a hemoglobin concentration of 3 g/dL. His medical history included arterial hypertension, alcohol abuse and nicotine dependence. Treatment for hemorrhagic shock was initiated immediately by administering large intravenous volume infusions, transfusions and multiple vasopressors. A focused assessment with sonography for trauma scan was performed. However, the infrarenal part of aorta was not visible due to excessive bowel gas. The patient was intubated and a nasogastric tube was placed which revealed fresh red blood. An emergency esophagogastroduodenoscopy (EGD) was performed, which showed large blood clots in the stomach (). However, an active source of bleeding was not present, neither in the stomach nor the duodenum (). High-dose proton-pump inhibitors and erythromycin were infused intravenously. Despite rapid fluid replacement, the patient went into acute renal failure and required continuous hemofiltration. The next day, repeat EGD revealed a small gastric erosion which was supplied with a metal clip. Otherwise no source of bleeding could be identified. A few hours later, the patient suffered from repeat hypotension and hematochezia. A colonoscopy demonstrated blood clots in the colon but no source of bleeding. The following days, his condition improved. He had a nonbloody bowel movement and his renal function recovered. For three days, he did not exhibit any signs of bleeding. A scheduled computed tomography (CT) scan was postponed due to improved condition of the patient. However, after five days the patient suddenly developed hematemesis. During emergency EGD, the patient suffered cardiac arrest and