The patient is a 67-year-old previously healthy female with a 55 pack-year smoking history presented with an indication of a mediastinal mass that was incidentally found on a chest radiograph when she developed pneumonia that resolved without complications several months prior. She denied any weight loss, fever, chills, or night sweats. After 30 years of not being seen by a healthcare provider, she subsequently established with a primary care physician. At that time, age-appropriate cancer screening was initiated, including a low-dose CT (computed tomography) scan of the thorax, which identified a 19 × 21 mm nodule, left hilar lymphadenopathy, and intralobular septal thickening in the left upper lobe () suspicious for pulmonary venous obstruction.
On direct admission to the hospital for further workup of the pulmonary mass, the patient was hemodynamically stable during the admission with stable vitals and moderate hypertension of 150/90 mmHg. CT Thorax with contrast verified a mass in the aortopulmonary window measuring 3.3 × 2.4 cm (Figures and ) and extending proximally into the left superior pulmonary veins and subsequently the left atrium (). Transthoracic echocardiography (TTE) revealed a left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) of 61% with a 3.0 cm × 1.6 cm mobile echo density with a poorly defined variegated surface visualized in the left atrium attached to the roof of the atrium (). The hypoechoic mass moves slightly with the cardiac cycle but remains within the left atrium. The mass appears to be projecting in from the right pulmonary vein but is not clearly defined. In some echocardiographic views, the mass occupies more than 50% of the left atrium and has an undulating thrombus on the surface of the tumor.
Initial workup included tumor staging with CT abdomen and pelvis, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the brain, and nuclear bone scan, all of which returned negative for metastatic disease. An adrenal mass was incidentally found on CT abdomen and follow-