The patient was a 24-year-old pregnant woman (20 weeks of pregnancy) who suffered from auditory hallucinations. She had never been diagnosed with any impairment in intelligence or communication skills and had no adverse childhood experiences such as abuse. She had never been diagnosed with epilepsy or any other physical illness. She had been drinking small amounts of alcohol twice per week. She also had no history of smoking or using other drugs such as cannabis or stimulant drugs. Although she was naturally nervous, she had no history of psychiatric disorders. When she was 22 years old, she became pregnant for the first time. She was admitted to the obstetrics clinic in our hospital twice for severe hyperemesis gravidarum. Her family blamed the condition on her physical and mental fragility. After admission, she developed mild auditory hallucinations of strangers blaming her. However, she was able to distract herself and not worry about the existence of the auditory hallucinations by talking to others such as the nurses or other patients. After her first child was born, the auditory hallucinations disappeared spontaneously, and her mental condition remained stable.
When the patient became pregnant again at the age of 24 years, she developed general malaise, insomnia, and vomiting during the early stage, similar to the first trimester of her first pregnancy. Starting at 15 weeks of pregnancy, she heard the doorbell when there was no one at the door and her cellphone ringtone even though it was switched off. From 20 weeks of pregnancy, she started to hear a voice criticizing her actions, even though there was no one nearby. Therefore, she visited the Department of Psychiatry in our hospital for psychiatric evaluation and treatment. She seemed to tire easily; however, her communication was smooth and did not show evidence of thought disturbances. The malaise, insomnia, and vomiting associated with hyperemesis gravidarum were more severe than in her first pregnancy. However, obvious depressive mood and loss of the sensation