A 68-year-old male patient was transferred to our referral center for an abdominal ECF at the site of a mesh from a previous hernia repair. His past medical history includes coronary artery disease with coronary bypass surgery 12 years before the present events, a ventral hernia repair with mesh 22 years before the current episode, and a smoking history of approximately 3-4 pack-years.
The patient has been complaining of a superficial non-healing abdominal wound lasting for almost a year, which led him to consult at another hospital due to increased pain, local erythema, and fever. Imaging revealed the presence of a subcutaneous abscess (), for which large spectrum antibiotic therapy was initiated. After 2 weeks of intravenous antibiotherapy, the abscess did not resolve and enteric content started leaking from a skin opening, suggesting the progression to an ECF (). Due to subacute mild non-productive cough, the patient underwent as well a thoracic computed tomography (CT) scan that displayed bilateral cavitary nodules () which seemed to progress in size on a second thoracic CT scan performed a month later. The patient’s daily activities and occupation could not be linked to an increased risk of pulmonary infectious agents or inhalation injury, and he had no previous history of tuberculosis. Moreover, the patient complained of nasal crusting with epistaxis. Due to the complexity of the presentation, the patient was transferred to our university hospital for multidisciplinary management.
An infectious or a neoplastic process was suspected. Extensive microbiological investigations failed to identify a potential etiological agent at the ECF site or in the pulmonary lesions. Culture of the abdominal subcutaneous abscess revealed the expected presence of enteric pathogens, including Enterococcus sp., Enterobacter cloacae, Escherichia coli, and multiple species of Candida. No bacterial or mycotic agents were identified on bronchoalveolar lavage. The patient was thus maintained on total parenteral nutrition and on a large spectrum regimen of intravenous antibiotic therapy, consisting initially of piperacillin-tazobactam, then imipenem/cilastatin, vancomycin, and fluconazole