We present the case of a 56-year-old female with a past medical history pertinent for depression, cirrhosis, chronic pancreatitis, tobacco abuse, and alcohol abuse. She presented to the emergency department (ED) for shortness of breath, general malaise, and dyspnea on exertion after a mechanical fall while ambulating and subsequent motor vehicle collision earlier in the day. The patient also endorsed several months of progressive loss of appetite and increasing nausea with vomiting over several days prior to evaluation. Alcohol use was significant for consuming about six beers plus wine or liquor daily. The examination findings were significant for profound abdominal distention and palpation of a firm mass in the left upper quadrant. CT of the abdomen and pelvis revealed a “large developing fluid collection in the left upper quadrant of the abdomen estimated up to 22 cm maximal dimension with regional mass effect.” With a history of chronic pancreatitis and atrophy of the pancreas with calcifications present on the imaging obtained, a pancreatic pseudocyst was the most likely differential (Figures -).
Interventional gastroenterology was appropriately consulted with recommendations to correct electrolyte derangements, notable for hyponatremia to 125, prior to endoscopic intervention. Following medical optimization for the presenting condition, the patient underwent a successful endoscopic ultrasound-guided pancreatic pseudocyst cystogastrostomy. Procedural endosonography revealed a 21 × 12 cm in maximal cross-sectional diameter large, anechoic lesion consistent with suspected pseudocyst in the peripancreatic region. Intervention by the consulted specialists resulted in a cystogastrostomy with stent placement and subsequent drainage of 4.5 L of dark, debris-laden fluid with additional drainage into the gastric lumen (Figures -). The stent was exchanged for double pigtail catheters connecting the pseudocyst to the stomach prior to the patient’s discharge (Figure ).
The patient was seen once again approximately three months after her initial discharge. Imaging at that time showed that there was no evidence of re-accumulation in the