We present the case of a 61-year-old man who presented to the emergency department with a two-day history of severe abdominal pain. The pain was generalized and non-radiating. He described the pain as burning in character and was constant. The pain was aggravated by food intake and was not relieved by over-the-counter medications. He rated the pain as 8 out of 10 in severity and he could not sleep because of the pain. The pain was associated with nausea and recurrent episodes of vomiting. The patient reported that he had been having abdominal pain that was similar in quality but much milder in severity than the current episode. He reported that he usually developed abdominal pain following meal intake. He visited several outpatient clinics for his pain. He was diagnosed as having indigestion. He has been on a proton pump therapy for two years and it has provided moderate relief to his pain. He underwent upper gastrointestinal endoscopy and revealed normal findings. He reported that because of the chronic abdominal pain, he had reduced appetite and lost more than 15 kg.
In addition to the chronic abdominal pain, the past medical history was remarkable for a longstanding history of hypertension, dyslipidemia, diabetes mellitus, and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. The patient had a history of Helicobacter pylori gastritis 15 years back that was successfully eradicated by triple therapy. The patient was on several medications for his comorbidities, including metformin 1000 mg, amlodipine 5 mg, omeprazole 40 mg, atorvastatin 20 mg, and aspirin 75 mg. His surgical history included a remote history of tonsillectomy. He was not known to have any drug or food allergies. He was a heavy smoker with a 30 pack-years smoking history. He never consumed alcohol. He was a retired school teacher. The family history was remarkable for inflammatory bowel disease.
Upon examination, the patient appeared in pain. His vital signs showed tachycardia (115 bpm), normal respiratory rate (14 bpm), normal temperature (36.8℃), and maintained blood pressure (