We present the case of a 35-year-old woman who was brought to the emergency department by her spouse because she developed convulsion for the first time in her life. He reported that while the patient was having her breakfast, she experienced unusual visual and sensory sensations with tinnitus. She was not complaining of any pain or feeling abnormal heartbeats. Suddenly, the patient lost consciousness and fell to the ground. She was not aware of the surrounding. The patient had frothy secretions from the mouth, and her color turned blue. She had repetitive jerky movements of her upper and lower limbs. This episode lasted for two minutes and was terminated spontaneously. After that, the patient regained consciousness, but she was very tired and fell asleep. There was no history of difficulty in speech or weakness following the episode. She did not remember the event. There was no history of early morning headache, nausea, or vomiting.
The past medical history of the patient was remarkable for primary infertility due to polycystic ovarian syndrome for which the patient is on metformin 500 mg daily. She had a long-standing history of depression and anxiety for which she underwent frequent cognitive behavioral therapy sessions. She underwent elective laparoscopic cholecystectomy for recurrent episodes of biliary colic. The patient was a non-smoker and never consumed alcohol. She worked as a lecturer and research assistant. Her family history was significant for breast cancer and Parkinson's disease.
Upon examination, the patient appeared tired. Her vital signs were within the normal limits. She had a heart rate of 90 bpm, respiratory rate of 14 bpm, temperature of 36.8℃, and maintained blood pressure. She was oriented to place, time, and person. There were no speech abnormalities. Neurological examination of the upper and lower limbs showed normal muscle tone and power. The reflexes were normal. She had a normal gait and coordination. Examination of other systems was unremarkable. Further, the initial laboratory investigations revealed