A 76-year-old otherwise healthy woman with a history of surgically resected stage 1A right lung adenocarcinoma and no adjuvant chemotherapy had her routine follow-up evaluation with her pulmonologists and oncologist three years postoperatively. Past medical history and social history were unremarkable, with no smoking or alcohol use. Her physical exam was unremarkable with vital signs, laboratory workup, and lung function test within normal limits. The follow-up diagnostic imaging included computerized tomography (CT) (Figure , ) and full-body positron emission tomography (PET) (Figure , ) that showed an incidental 2 cm hypermetabolic right adrenal mass without any other pathological lesions or concerning regional or distant lymphadenopathy.
A review of a CT scan performed six months prior revealed no right adrenal mass or other suspicious findings. The patient was otherwise healthy with no signs or symptoms concerning a functional adrenal mass or advanced malignancy. She denied abdominal or right flank pain. Biochemical studies for hormonal overproduction, including aldosterone/renin ratio, late-night salivary cortisol, and adrenocorticotropic hormone, and plasma catecholamines with urine metanephrines) were within the physiological ranges. Given the patient’s history, the hypermetabolic activity of the mass, and the likelihood of rapid growth of the mass to 2.5 cm within six months, metastatic disease was high on the differential. Other options considered due to the fast growth rate included adrenocortical carcinoma and less likely adrenal adenoma. Because this was an isolated, quickly growing adrenal mass with no lymphadenopathy, a decision was made to proceed with the right adrenalectomy as the treatment of choice for a definitive resection and histological diagnosis. The patient underwent successful laparoscopic right adrenalectomy.
Procedure in brief
After the initiation of general endotracheal anesthesia, the patient was placed in the right decubitus position, and operative fields prepped and draped in a standard sterile fashion. A right subcostal approach with four trocars was used. A harmonic scalpel was used