Case was a 38-year-old Latin American female with a family history of cardiac disease, arterial hypertension, pulmonary, and testicular cancer. The patient was diagnosed 2 years prior to evaluation with borderline personality disorder and had positive tobacco and alcohol use, reaching inebriation at least once every 15 days. The patient presented depressive symptoms with labile mood for the first time at 18 years of age. At 21 years old, she was diagnosed with postpartum depression after symptoms of isolation, anhedonia, and emotional lability augmented. She had two suicide attempts at age 24 and 28, both of which were followed by the hospitalization of the patient. Since age 24, she had received several antidepressants intermittently (mainly fluoxetine and sertraline), with poor improvement of symptoms. Two months ago, depressive symptoms increased, and she started fluoxetine 40 mg daily by herself. Poor symptomatic response was achieved, and she continued with anhedonia, hopelessness, sleeping problems, irritability, and anxiety.
The patient was conscious and oriented. She complained of occasional tachycardia and lower limb paresthesia while being stressed, as well as acid reflux with every meal, leading to a diminishment in daily food intake; additionally, the patient appears to be sleepy and tired. At the time of assessment and treatment, the patient had suspended medication without physician supervision.
The patient was assessed with the same scales and inventories as in previous cases. The MADRS showed moderate depression (score of 28 points), and the BDI indicated the presence of severe depression (score of 42 points). Meanwhile, the BAI indicated the presence of severe anxiety (score of 37 points), as well as the presence of insomnia (score of 10 in AIS). Finally, the MMSE indicated no impairment; however, the score is on a limit cut-off value (score of 24 points).
Reassessment was performed after 15 sessions of HFLI TMS, showing an improvement in all measures. The BDI (