We present the case of a 65-year-old male with no previous smoking or supplemental oxygen history who presented to the emergency department after a routine clinic visit that showed desaturation into the 70s. Past medical history was insignificant except for recent hospital admission the week prior that entailed a recent bilateral embolic stroke followed by a left carotid endarterectomy with 80% stenosis bilaterally, as well as a viral infection with influenza type B treated with Tamiflu. Initial evaluation upon admission revealed acute hypoxemic respiratory failure without hypercapnia. CT chest showed significant bilateral consolidation in the mid to lower lobes correlating with a bilateral pneumonia secondary to recent viral illness (). Meropenem and Levaquin were started, followed by vancomycin as the patient continued to require more oxygen and non-invasive ventilation over the following three days. This included high-flow-nasal cannula (HFNC) initially, with advancement to Vapotherm to maintain the patient’s oxygenation status. Initial laboratory work revealed a white blood cell (WBC) of 13.3 (high of 23 during admission), erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR) of 88, and c-reactive protein (CRP) of 8.8. The respiratory viral panel was negative, and tests for other possible causes, including fungal and autoimmune causes, were negative.
The patient underwent an endobronchial ultrasound (EBUS) bronchoscopy where the obtained samples were negative for source of infection from cytology, Gram stain, and sputum findings. The findings from EBUS bronchoscopy also included respiratory macrophages and inflammatory cells. Following this procedure, there was increasing concern for noninfectious organizing pneumonia as other diagnoses had been excluded. The patient was then started on IV steroids, and IV antibiotics were discontinued. In addition, nightly continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) was added as there was also a concern of undiagnosed obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) as a contributing factor to the patient’s hypoxia. An echocardiogram with bubble study was additionally performed out of concern for possible shunting that could