A 36-year-old African American man with a past medical history of herpes simplex virus (HSV) infection presented to the emergency department with a chief complaint of right knee pain and swelling of a couple of weeks. The symptoms began shortly after the patient returned from his trip to Minnesota where he was diagnosed with gonococcal urethritis by urine polymerase chain reaction (PCR) at a local emergency department. He had initially presented with a thick white urethral discharge and had been treated with one dose of cefixime 400 mg and doxycycline 100 mg twice a day for seven days. The patient returned to Connecticut and presumably finished his antibiotics treatment.
Over the next two weeks, the patient developed right knee pain and swelling and sought care in an outside emergency room. He was noted to have bilateral conjunctival injection in addition to right knee synovitis. He was given ibuprofen as well as erythromycin ophthalmic ointment. The patient returned the following day to the same emergency room due to minimal relief of his knee pain and this time was given prednisone taper for five days starting with 50 mg daily. Six days later, he presented to our emergency department with ongoing right knee pain.
Upon presentation, the patient also endorsed complaints of right ankle pain and swelling as well as left lateral hip pain. He had also complained of open sores on his penis, which per patient felt very similar to his prior HSV outbreaks. On further questioning, he noted feeling febrile but denied fatigue, weight loss, eye pain or redness, vision changes, rhinitis, ear discharge, chest pain, shortness of breath, abdominal discomfort, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, dysuria or urethral discharge. Patient admitted to smoking about two to three cigarettes a day and drinking alcohol occasionally but denied use of illicit drugs. He has had multiple sexual partners over the past six months and did not use protection.
On physical examination, he was febrile (102.9°F) and tachycardic (129 beats per minute). He