A 25-year-old man post renal transplant two year ago. He presented to the emergency department with left hypochondrial swelling, that he noticed three months ago. It became painful for 2 weeks duration with no changes in the size or discharge from the lesion. He denied a history of trauma and fever. He is non-smoker, his psychosocial, drug and family history were unremarkable.
On examination, the patient was vitally stable, looks well and not in pain. Abdominal examination revealed a lesion located in the anterior abdominal wall, the area between the left hypochondrial and lower chest. The swelling was about 3 × 3 cm, tender with minimal erythema and hotness but no discharge.
The routine laboratory works up were unremarkable. An ultrasound was done while scanning the left anterior abdominal wall at the area of concern, it showed superficial oval shaped with thick wall and mildly increased peripheral vascularity without internal vascularity []. In correlation to the clinical information of tenderness and redness, the findings are more likely going with infected subcutaneous soft tissue lesion, managed with oral antibiotic.
He then presented to the clinic a week later with the same history given previously, a surgical excision proposed to the patient and was done under local anesthesia by general surgeon. During the procedure, the excised mass was found to be round in shape, soft tissue in character, adhesion to the surrounding tissue which was excised with healthy margins and sent for histopathology review.
The histopathology findings of the lesion show a necrotic tissue with peripheral spindle cells with prominent nuclear pallisading (Verocay Bodies) []. The spindle cells have indistinct cell border, eosinophilic cytoplasm. and spindle to plump nuclei. Well controlled immunostains show that the tumor cells are positive for S100 [], but negative for CD34, SMA, Desmin, beta-catenin, c-KIT and DOG-1. The final diagnosis was schwannoma with ancient changes i.e. (Intralesional histiocytes and