A 46-year-old man with a smoking history of 15 pack-years presented with cough and dyspnea. He had been treated for a malignant mediastinal germ cell tumor, the original part of which had been surgically resected with part of the left lung and the left phrenic nerve 10 years earlier, resulting in paralysis of the left diaphragm. He had also undergone treatment for bilateral iliac metastasis with chemotherapy and heavy ion radiotherapy 5 years before and metastasis to the right lung with surgical wedge resection 6 years before. Nine months before the outpatient visit, the patient had undergone stereotactic body-radiation therapy with 56 Gy of radiation in seven fractions to treat another right lung metastasis measuring 3.5 cm in diameter and located close to the right hilum (Fig. a, b). On presentation, computed tomography revealed right bronchial stenosis over the range of previous radiotherapy (Figs. b, c; a, b). Bronchoscopy showed broad necrosis of the right bronchus, ranging from the right main bronchus to the orifices of the bronchi of the middle lobe and the superior segment of the lower lobe (Fig. a–d). Pulmonary function was low with 2.6 L of vital capacity and 1.7 L of forced expiratory volume in one second. He was repeatedly treated with bronchial debridement of the necrotic tissue, culture of which revealed infection with Aspergillus fumigatus and other various bacteria. Bronchoscopic biopsies were performed several times, showing no malignancy but only fungal hyphae. Despite intensive antibiotic therapy with voriconazole and repeated debridement, the necrosis was progressive. Neither balloon dilatation nor stenting seemed to be an option because of the fragility of the bronchial wall and serious concern regarding formation of a bronchopulmonary arterial fistula. The patient eventually developed sepsis and renal failure, which necessitated urgent surgical removal of the necrotic bronchus. However, he was unable to endure right pneumonectomy because of his low respiratory function caused by left phrenic nerve paralysis. Preoperative pulmonary perfusion scintigraphy using technetium-99m-labeled macroaggregated albumin showed moderate-to-