A 74-year-old woman was referred to our center after identification of multiple masses in her left breast on screening mammography and subsequent left mastectomy. She was diagnosed with NF1 during childhood and displayed neurofibromas on her face, chest, trunk, and upper limbs (Figure ). The patient had previous right-sided breast cancer at 34 years of age with positive lymph node involvement, positive estrogen receptor (ER) status, and negative progesterone receptor (PR) status. She was subsequently treated with right mastectomy, adjuvant chemotherapy, and adjuvant tamoxifen at that time. She had her first menstrual period at 14 years of age and reached menopause at 50 years of age. No history of hormone replacement or oral contraceptives was reported. She denied smoking in the past and only occasionally drank alcohol. The only family history of breast cancer that was noted was in a cousin and a niece on her mother’s side, and there was no documented family history of NF1.
The patient underwent bilateral screening mammographs after experiencing a rupture of her already present right breast implant, which found three to four masses in her left breast, with the largest being 2.9 cm. Subsequent ultrasound-guided core needle biopsies were procured, which suggested multiple masses of distinct pathologies. The patient then underwent left mastectomy and sentinel lymph node biopsy. Further workup with chest and abdominal computed tomography (CT) as well as bone scan detected no distant metastasis. Pathology confirmed the diagnosis of left breast invasive ductal carcinoma with two separate foci, the larger being a 44 mm tumour at stage pT2, pN1a (grade III) and with positive ER and PR statuses, and the smaller tumour measuring 7 mm at stage pT1b, pN0 (grade II) with triple-negative status. Her case was reviewed at the weekly Breast Multidisciplinary Team Tumour Board meeting and it was proposed that she be initially started on adjuvant chemotherapy - three cycles of fluorouracil, epirubicin, and cyclophosphamide,