A 32-year-old man visited the outpatient clinic for left knee pain and swelling that occurred after falling on the stairs. On physical examination, there was lateral joint line tenderness, and 40 cc of bloody discharge was aspirated by hemarthrosis. The patient was a courier driver, and he had no history of alcohol or tobacco use. There were no underlying diseases such as hypertension or diabetes. The patient's height was 180 cm, his weight was 118 kg, and his body mass index (BMI) was 36.4, which was class III obesity.[ On magnetic resonance imaging, a lateral meniscus flap tear was observed, and surgery was scheduled. The operation was performed with tourniquet inflation up to 300 mm Hg under general anesthesia. The patient's obesity was so severe that it was not easy to secure the joint space, and the operation took longer than expected. Tourniquet time was 62 minutes and total operation time was 80 minutes. A complex meniscal tear with horizontal and radial tears from the mid body to the posterior horn was observed (Fig. ), and repair was performed after marginal debridement using both inside-out and all-inside techniques (Fig. ). The patient had no comorbidities other than high BMI, no vascular diseases, and did not take antithrombotic drugs or hormones. None of his family members had a history of VTE. After surgery, a long leg splint was applied, and a nonweight bearing position was maintained. Straight leg-raising exercises were performed from the day after surgery to strengthen the quadriceps muscle. Similar to other arthroscopy patients, thromboprophylaxis medications were not administered. The patient was scheduled to be discharged on the second day after surgery, but due to personal reasons, the discharge was changed to day 6. The patient remained in the hospital without any specific symptoms until day 4 after surgery.
On day 5 postoperative, the patient complained of dyspnea, chest discomfort, and nausea abruptly after standing, and these symptoms were not