A 58-year-old male patient, non-smoker, the victim of a work accident (falling from the same level and contact with a cutting object). He was admitted in the Emergency Room at 6 h after the accident. At the admission in the Plastic Surgery clinic the diagnosis was work accident with complete left ear amputation and sprained right ankle. No other ENT lesions was identified. The consultation of an orthopaedic surgeon was necessary. He indicated and performed the immobilization of the sprained ankle. The operative steps were similar as in the other two cases, using the same tools and the same sutures. We performed only one arterial anastomosis with no vein anastomosis. We also performed an arc-shaped skin band excision at both stumps (approximately 4 mm wide) to increase the contact area of the denuded cartilage with the recipient site. The surgery lasted 6 h. Medicinal leech therapy was started 12 h postoperatively and was continued for 7 days, when the signs of venous congestion disappeared. We used systemic anticoagulant treatment with weight-based heparin, dextran 40. Antibiotic therapy was administered, as in all cases, for the prophylaxis of infections due to the contamination of lesions but also for the prophylaxis of possible Aeromonas hydrophila infections. We also used ciprofloxacin 500 mg/day. The patient was discharged on the 11-th postoperatively day. The sutures were removed after 14 days.
In none of the study cases the great auricular nerve neurorrhaphy was performed.
Complete survival of the amputated segment was obtained in all cases, without areas of marginal necrosis or other complications that would require reintervention or subsequent secondary intervention for reconstruction. In none of the reported cases postoperative or leeching-related bleeding did not occur that required blood transfusions. No infections were recorded. During MLT, patients’ complete blood count (Hb, Ht) was repeated and secretions were collected from both the suture path and from where the leeches were placed. All 3 patients were