A 62-year-old Caucasian woman with a history of stroke, epilepsy, and peptic ulcer disease presented to our emergency department (ED) for increasing swelling and erythema over her left foot despite 7 days of oral antibiotic therapy for cellulitis. She denied fever, chills, and respiratory or gastrointestinal symptoms. She had no family history of cardiac diseases, nor did she have any previous cardiac workup or echocardiograms. She was an active smoker with a 50-pack year smoking history and denied alcohol or drug use. Physical examination upon admission was pertinent for erythema, swelling, and tenderness in the left lower extremity. Neurologic examination was intact except for left-sided hemiparesis from a previous stroke. Laboratory tests were notable for lactate of 2.5 mmol/L. Her serum creatinine increased from 0.6 to 0.92 mg/dL within 24 hours upon admission, consistent with a diagnosis of acute kidney injury. She was hospitalized under the diagnosis of cellulitis complicating sepsis with end-organ dysfunction and started on intravenous vancomycin 1000 mg daily.
She was clinically stable until the third day of hospitalization, when she began to have intermittent episodes of hypoxia with a measured oxygen saturation of 88%, along with substernal chest discomfort. Physical examination was pertinent for diffuse wheezing in all lung fields which was alleviated after receiving nebulized albuterol. The following day, hypotension was noted, with a systolic blood pressure of 75 mmHg that resolved after fluid resuscitation. Her electrocardiogram (ECG) at the time showed sinus tachycardia. Serial troponin I levels were within normal limits. Computed tomography angiogram of the chest was negative for pulmonary embolism. Echocardiogram revealed an ejection fraction of 25%, left ventricular diastolic dimension of 4.6 cm, and multiple segmental wall motion abnormalities in the basal-to-mid anteroseptum along with basal-to-mid anterior, apical anterior, and apical septum.
Repeat ECG 8 hours after the initial one was remarkable for sinus arrhythmia with deep symmetric T-