We encountered a 69-year-old man who had localized right pleural metastases after undergoing nephrectomy in September 2017 for right RCC (8.0 × 7.0 × 7.0 cm), clinical stage 3, clear cell type histology, grade 2 (, A–2C). The tumor was histologically solid, with hemorrhage, necrosis, scarring, and pseudocapsule formation, and infiltrated into the renal parenchyma. The tumor spread to the right renal vein, but no infiltration into the inferior vena cava was observed. He didn't receive adjuvant chemotherapy following the nephrectomy. Postoperatively, he did not present with any symptoms and received regular follow-up with chest and abdominal computed tomography (CT) every three months. There were no confirmed recurrence and metastasis until March 2020, when he visited our hospital complaining of right chest pain and dyspnea. At this time, CT scan revealed right pleural effusion and multiple pleural masses (C and D). There were no abnormal radiologic findings in the other organs. He had no smoking history, no past medical history, and no asbestos exposure. We suspected the following possibilities: metastasis from RCC, malignant pleural mesothelioma, and synovial sarcoma. For investigation and diagnosis, we performed two pleural effusion tests before surgery, but both cytological results were class I. After one month, there were no new abnormal radiologic findings, but we confirmed that the tumors obviously grew on CT (E and F). Finally, we performed intrathoracic tumor resection under general anesthesia and diagnosed histologically as pleural metastasis from clear cell type RCC (D–F). Thoracoscopy showed multiple reddish, soft, bleeding encapsulated tumors (). The pleural fluid cytology had no malignant cells. A total of eight bleeding tumors were completely resected, with the largest measuring 5.0 × 3.8 × 2.2 cm. This case is currently being treated for pembrolizumab plus axitinib, which has been reported to be superior to sunitinib in overall survival and progression-free survival []. This was a very rare case