A 45-year-old Caucasian female patient sought for dental treatment in the Department of Periodontology with the main complaints of dissatisfaction with the use of a total upper denture (Figures –). Patient medical records were not significant, and she denied use of alcohol or smoking. Her clinical history was marked by premature tooth loss in her adult age and by the use of removable prosthesis thereafter. She underwent implant rehabilitation in the maxilla eight years ago, and some implants were lost due to peri-implantitis in the posterior area of the maxilla. Clinical and radiographic examination revealed poor oral hygiene and the presence of three dental implants in the anterior area with gingival bleeding, swelling, and localized calculus in the implant surface (Figures and ). Panoramic radiography showed extensive pneumatization of the maxillary sinuses, a radiolucent area around the remaining implant threads, and alveolar bone loss around the implant threads near the apical third of the fixation (Figures and ).
Based on her medical history and clinical and radiographic analyses, the treatment plan was proposed in different stages. The first treatment phase encompassed new provisional prosthesis, surgical removal of the implants affected by peri-implantitis followed by the installation of two short implants with immediate loading, and provisional prosthesis installation. In the second phase, the surgical approaches included maxillary sinus floor augmentation bilaterally with concomitant graft with DBBM plus PRF membranes, autogenous block bone graft, implant placement, and definitive prosthetic rehabilitation. The planned surgical reconstruction in different phases of the treatment was intended to allow the patient to use provisional prosthesis during her treatment without functional and esthetic complaints. Written informed consent was obtained prior to initial treatment.
The first step of treatment involved the confection of new provisional prosthesis previous to implant removal. In this moment, all the expectations of the patient regarding her tooth characteristics (color, size, position, etc.) and all the necessary changes in her prosthesis were taken into account to