A forty-nine-year-old female who was not a known case of any medical illnesses, presented to the outpatient clinic with a two-week history of pain in the left forearm, and numbness over the 3rd, 4th and 5th digits and medial aspect of the hand, which limited her daily living activities. This was associated with pallor of the ulnar aspect of the hand during excessive use. The patient denied having loss of motor functioning and trauma to the affected limb. Moreover, the patient did not have any risk factors for aneurysmal formation such as smoking, hypertension, dyslipidaemia, or connective tissue disease. She did not have any cardiovascular complains either.
General examination was normal. A peripheral vascular exam of both upper limbs showed no skin changes, ulcers, or peripheral cyanosis. Skin temperature and capillary refill time was normal. All upper limb pulses were present bilaterally, however, the left distal ulnar artery pulse was faint, whilst the pulse at the aneurysm’s site was prominent. Tenderness was present in the medial left forearm. Sensation was reduced over the left 3rd, 4th and 5th digits suggesting an ulnar nerve distribution. Cardiovascular examination was unremarkable.
Blood tests for vasculitis and connective tissue disorders were sent and results were reported as negative. A duplex ultrasound of the left forearm showed a dilated middle segment of the ulnar artery with limited flow. These findings were confirmed with an MRI (, ). Subsequently, a left upper limb angiography revealed a fusiform aneurysm of the proximal to mid segment of the left ulnar artery measuring approximately 9 cm in length and 8 mm in diameter (). A sluggish flow was noted in the ulnar artery in comparison to the radial and interosseous arteries. The aortic arch, subclavian, axillary, brachial and radial arteries were patent with no evidence of atherosclerotic changes. The palmar arch was discontinuous; with the radial artery supplying the radial two-and-a-half digits, and the ulnar artery supplying the