A 64-year-old male presented to our facility with a three-month history of constitutional symptoms including generalized malaise, weight loss, anorexia, fatigue, and night sweats. Later in his course, but prior to presenting for medical care, he developed additional symptoms of back and abdominal pain. He was immunocompetent, and his medical history was significant for previous myocardial infarction, for which two drug-eluting stents were placed, and a perforated gastric ulcer repaired in 1990. He had no surgical history or family history of aortic aneurysms. His occupation was animal husbandry, and he worked on a farm that sells livestock with many cattle. He described an injury to the inside of his left leg after he slipped on ice and fell into cattle manure several months prior to the onset of his illness. It was a small open wound that was not reported to have clinical signs of infection; therefore, he did not receive antibiotics at that time. He did not smoke and denied past or current intravenous drug use.
As an outpatient, the patient previously underwent esophagogastroduodenoscopy to investigate his six-week history of abdominal pain and was found to have a gastric ulcer positive for Helicobacter organisms. He was treated with triple therapy of clarithromycin, amoxicillin, and pantoprazole. All of his symptoms improved while on this regimen, but they relapsed thereafter.
Given his abdominal and back pain, a non-urgent computed tomography (CT) scan was performed three months after his symptoms developed, which demonstrated a large aneurysm in the infrarenal abdominal aorta measuring 8.2 x 5.8 x 8.5 cm, with retroperitoneal fat stranding surrounding the aneurysm (Figures -). He had never had any previous imaging of his abdomen for comparison. The patient was immediately transferred to vascular surgery at our center for assessment and definitive management.
On initial presentation to our facility, after the CT scan, the patient’s physical exam demonstrated a tender pulsatile abdominal mass. He