The patient is a 67-year-old woman who complained of loss of strength, affecting predominantly the proximal muscles, in both the upper and lower limbs, over the last three years. The patient reported recently marked difficulties in climbing stairs and walking. Symptoms presented fluctuated initially, becoming continuous at the time of assessment. Bulbar or respiratory symptoms did not accompany them.
Her past medical history was remarkable for the presence of small cell carcinoma of the lung in treatment with carboplatin and etoposide; the patient has been a smoker from age 16 and is a moderate alcohol drinker. On neurological examination, manual muscle strength testing was 5-/5 in the proximal upper limbs and 4+/5 in the proximal lower limbs. The sensation was preserved to all modalities. The bicipital, patellar and Achilles deep tendon reflexes were absent bilaterally.
Neurophysiologists performed electroneurography, EMG, RNS, and single-fibre EMG. Electroneurography for nerve conduction studies (NCS) revealed normal motor and sensory conduction velocities and expected characteristics of the evoked potentials, helping us rule out polyneuropathy secondary to chemotherapy treatment. During the needle EMG, they studied the right vastus lateralis muscle, which showed no evidence of abnormalities, ruling out a myopathy possibility.
For the RNS test, they studied the right median nerve. The responses were recorded using electrodes applied over the abductor pollicis brevis muscle. It demonstrated a significant drop (>10%) in the amplitude of the fourth potential to the first one. Moving next to the single-fibre EMG, the right vastus lateralis muscle was studied, which showed the presence of an increased jitter in four of the six pairs, with an increase of the average jitter value. In one of the pairs analyzed, there was a block (Figure ).
These findings were consistent with an alteration of the neuromuscular transmission at the postsynaptic motor end-plate level, which is compatible with MG.
Her laboratory studies showed that