Our patient is a 37-year-old female who presented with a three-day history of dry cough associated with hemoptysis. The hemoptysis started a day before presentation to the hospital and it occurred twice. The patient quantified the amount equal to a teaspoon full on each instance. She was otherwise asymptomatic with no associated fever, night sweats, or weight loss. Physical examination was completely unremarkable with clear lung fields on auscultation. Laboratory investigations, including a full blood count, renal function, electrolytes, and inflammatory markers, were also within normal limits. Her past medical history was unremarkable and she never smoked cigarettes. There was no additional history of pets at home or occupational exposures. Plain chest radiography revealed a right middle zone elliptical opacity with a small round shadow within (Figure ). She was admitted for further investigations and treated symptomatically.
A CT scan was performed which demonstrated a loculated effusion in the upper part of the oblique fissure with a well-defined, rounded, soft tissue density lesion embedded within and measuring approximately 7 x 5 cm without calcifications (Figure ).
This case was later discussed at a multidisciplinary team meeting followed by a plan to proceed with exploration and excision of the lesion.
Surgery was initially performed by the means of a thoracoscopy through a 12 mm port. The interlobar fissure cyst containing the lesion was large in size (10 x 7 cm); therefore, it proved to be difficult to remove while keeping the cyst intact by thoracoscopy. This was important in order to avoid a sac rupture with the remote possibility of it being a hydatid cyst. Eventually, a right posterolateral thoracotomy through the fifth intercostal space was performed and the cyst dissected with complete excision (Figure ).
Surprisingly, during exploration, another mass was noted in the upper lobe ipsilaterally and was excised. The wound was then closed and both lesions were sent to the laboratory for histopathological examination. There were no immediate