A 59-year-old Hispanic male with a past medical history of diabetes, hyperlipidemia, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), and remote smoking history (quit 29 years ago) was admitted to the hospital by his pulmonologist for recurrent bilateral pneumonia over the past 10 months. The patient's initial symptom was a cough associated with lying supine, eating, or drinking. He also reported that his oxygen saturation would decrease to the 80s while sleeping and unintentional weight loss of 40 pounds over the past 10 months. On further questioning, the patient reported having progressive dysphagia from solids to liquid over the past 10 months.
He reported being admitted to a different hospital approximately three-weeks prior, where he was diagnosed with persistent pneumonia and treated with antibiotics and steroids. The patient's hospital course was complicated secondary to pleural effusion, which required a thoracentesis. Pleural fluid analysis was negative for malignancy. CT scan of the chest during his previous hospital stay revealed extensive bilateral infiltrates and a 3 cm density in the left upper lobe. He was discharged and to follow up as outpatient with his pulmonologist.
On this admission, his initial vital signs were temperature 98.2 F, pulse 84 beats per minute, respiratory rate 15 breaths per minute, blood pressure 111/69 mmHg, and oxygen saturation 93% on room air. Physical examination was significant for rhonchi and lymphadenopathy. Chest X-ray and CT of the chest showed pneumonic infiltrates and pleural effusion (Figure and Figure , respectively), which required drainage by thoracentesis.
As the patient had dysphagia and weight loss, a barium swallow was done, which was remarkable for slow emptying and severe backflow in the esophagus followed by coughing associated with dysphagia. The patient had undergone an esophagogastroduodenoscopy (EGD) due to findings on barium study. EGD revealed a gastric fundi mass approaching the gastroesophageal junction. Biopsies taken from the gastric-mass were positive for gastric adenocarcinoma. A