A 79-year-old male with COPD and peripheral artery disease was transferred to our institution from a secondary hospital with the diagnosis of aortic transection, after a lone motorcyclist accident without wearing a helmet. While arriving at our emergency room, the patient was confused and complained of chest pain especially aggravated with deep breathing. Physical examinations showed stable vital signs: blood pressure (BP), 122/74 mmHg; pulse rate, 98/min; and respiratory rate, 20/min. Glasgow Coma Scale at admission was 8, so he was intubated on arrival. His injuries included subarachnoid and subdural hemorrhage, fracture of the occipital bone, mandibular fracture, rib fractures with bilateral pulmonary contusions, hemothorax in the left side, and fracture of the left femur as well. Blood loss through the chest tube at insertion was 400 ml and stabilized at 700 ml thereafter. Three-dimensional reconstruction images of contrast-enhanced computed tomographic angiography (CTA) demonstrated an intimal injury with periaortic hematoma (grade II aortic injury). It was located across the origin of the left subclavian artery (). A multidisciplinary trauma team approach was instituted.
As there is no endograft availability in our institution, orthopedists stabilized the femur, and then, we proceeded to treat the aortic injury given its severity. Fortunately, the patient was hemodynamically stable. Anti-impulse therapy was administered during the whole procedure which was held in the operating room with mobile c-arm. The patient was placed in a supine position. Aortography was performed via a catheter placed percutaneously through the brachial artery to confirm the anatomy and define the landing zones for the device. Because of multiple atherosclerotic lesions in both femoral arteries and in the left iliac artery, extraperitoneal exposure of the right iliac artery was performed. An incision was made 2 cm above and parallel to the inguinal ligament, extending from the lateral edge of the rectus sheath to a point 2 cm cephalad to the anterior superior iliac spine. After exposure of the external iliac artery