A 67 year old male with a history of heavy smoking was witnessed by his wife to have suddenly collapsed at home. The patient had been complaining of chest pain for a few days but did not seek medical care due to fear of contracting COVID-19 from within the medical setting. When emergency medical services (EMS) arrived to his house, the patient was complaining of severe crushing chest pain and a 12 lead electrocardiogram (ECG) performed revealed ST-segment elevations and pathological q-waves in leads II, III, and aVF with reciprocal ST-segment depressions in leads I and aVL, consistent with inferior ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI) (Fig. ). En route to the hospital the patient subsequently lost pulses and underwent cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) for 3 min prior to arrival to the emergency department (ED). On arrival to the ED, the patient underwent 10 more minutes of CPR until return of spontaneous circulation (ROSC) was achieved. After appropriate donning of personal protective equipment (PPE) by ED personnel, the patient was intubated and point of care (POC) ultrasound revealed a depressed ejection fraction (EF) and a large pericardial effusion with tamponade physiology. A pericardiocentesis was attempted twice, however aspiration of the pericardial effusion was unsuccessful which raised concern for a hematoma formation from a possible contained old rupture. A chest x-ray revealed a widened mediastinum (Fig. ). The patient was taken emergently for computed tomography angiography (CTA) scan of his aorta. The CT scan revealed active extravasation through a small channel in the inferior wall of the left ventricle into the pericardial cavity consistent with left ventricular myocardial perforation. There was also evidence of reflux of contrast into the inferior vena cava, distal hepatic veins, and right renal vein suggestive of low cardiac output in the setting of acute cardiac tamponade, left ventricular perforation and hemopericardium (Fig. ). The right coronary artery was noted to be opacified in the