The report describes a 32-year-old woman who presented to an emergency department with severe acute-on-chronic pelvic pain for 4 days and inability to walk straight in the preceding 24 hours. There was associated dysuria, frequency of micturition, copious whitish nonfoul smelling per vaginal discharge, and anorexia. She was passing stool normally.
She reported a history of chronic pelvic pain and intermittent dysuria for over 10 months which she noticed early in pregnancy. At approximately 20 weeks of gestation, preterm prelabor rupture of membranes (PPROM) occurred. She was admitted in hospital most of the time until antepartum hemorrhage occurred culminating in preterm delivery of a live baby at 32 weeks of gestation. She reported having received several courses of antibiotic therapy during the hospitalization in pregnancy. Source records to determine the investigations undertaken or their results nor the names of antibiotics given during pregnancy were not available because care had been in a different hospital in a different part of the country and she did not possess any documentation. Symptoms had persisted postpartum until the current presentation.
She denied suffering from or being treated for a sexually transmitted infection earlier. She had one sexual partner and did not have evidence or suspicion that her husband had other sexual partners. The patient was not on treatment for any other chronic medical conditions and had not had any other surgeries besides the cesarean section.
She had a degree in social work but was unemployed. She did not smoke, drink alcohol, or use other recreational drugs. She was the only wife to a 36-year-old husband, but they were now estranged following the prolonged hospital admissions, piling medical bills, and ongoing pelvic pain which made sexual intercourse uncomfortable. She had always lived in urban areas, mostly in the capital city, and used modern methods of sanitation. She denied using or swimming in unprotected water sources.
On examination, she was fully conscious with no clinical