A 65-year-old male patient presented to the Department of Oral Surgery of Clinical Hospital Centre Zagreb after resection of the mandible due to OPC that was surgically treated in April 2015 (Figures and ). He was referred by a prosthodontist due to an inability to function with a full denture. He had no history of tobacco smoking and only drank socially and did not have any other usual predisposition factors for carcinogenesis in this area. Until this disease, his medical status was remarkable. The patient's medical history revealed radical neck dissection, commando surgery, and reconstruction using an anterolateral thigh (ALT) flap due to a squamous cell carcinoma localised in the anterior palate arch with expansion into the retromolar trigonum area and lateral oropharyngeal walls (T3N0M0). The patient had received postoperative chemotherapy (cisplatin i.v.) for a total of three cycles in conjunction with radiotherapy. Three-dimensional conformal radiotherapy was performed in the region of the tumour, with a total of 32 fractions using a total dose of 64 Gy. In the region of the neck lymph node bilaterally 25 fractions in a total dose of 50 Gy were performed. The patient handled the therapy well (ECOG 0), with no major side effects. The only symptom he had was the expected local side effect of mucositis. Replacement hormone therapy with 50 μg levothyroxine had also been introduced.
On initial examination, an edentulous mandible was found with a narrow zone of attached mucosa, preventing the fabrication of a satisfactory full denture (). Three months before, the patient extracted all remained teeth, upper right molar, four mandibular incisors, and lower right canine because of impossibility of restoration due to deep caries or periapical lesions. A cone beam computed tomography (CBCT) was performed, where adequate residual alveolar ridge height and width for the insertion of dental implants were observed. After consultation with a prosthodontist, we decided to place three dental implants for future fabrication of a