A 67-year-old Japanese male with a past medical history significant for primary biliary cirrhosis, chronic kidney disease stage 3, hypertension, and dyslipidemia presented to hospital with left side chest pain which was insidious in onset, gradually progressive, increasing in intensity and frequency, from past 10 days and radiating to the medial side of the left arm. He was not a known diabetic and was a non-smoker. On presentation, electrocardiography (ECG) was done which showed ST elevation in inferior leads along with sinus bradycardia with heart rate in 30’s. He was taken emergently to the catheterization lab, where it was found that he had complete occlusion of distal right coronary artery (RCA) along with 80% stenosis of proximal RCA, resulting in the placement of three drug-eluting stents to the above (Figure ).
Incidentally, multiple coronary artery aneurysms were also noted at that time. He was started on aspirin and clopidogrel for coronary artery disease status post stenting and was discharged home once he was medically stable.
He presented again to the emergency room, a month later with complaints of substernal chest tightness of 2 hours duration and ECG showed sinus bradycardia with a heart rate of 56 and anterior ST elevation, was taken again emergently to the catheterization lab for left heart catheterization and found to have distal RCA stent thrombosis and underwent successful coronary angioplasty. He informed that he was only taking clopidogrel, hence stent thrombosis was thought to be from non-adherence to dual antiplatelet therapy. After discharge from the hospital, he started noticing progressively worsening severe bilateral lower extremity pain along with gangrenous appearing little toes of both feet and dusky appearance of remaining toes (Figure ).
Lower extremity arterial doppler was negative, which ruled out peripheral vascular disease. So, in suspicion of ongoing vascular disease, CT angiogram of the abdominal aorta was done which showed 1.6 cm right common iliac artery aneurysm along with 1 cm saccular aneurysm at