A 71-year-old right-handed female with a past medical history of scleroderma, pulmonary fibrosis, and right middle cerebral artery (MCA) territory infarct seven years before this presentation. She was treated with low-dose aspirin and high-dose statin medications, which she stopped 6 months before this presentation. She had fully recovered from the prior stroke without any clinically evident sequelae. There is no history of tobacco or illicit drug use, and she quit drinking alcohol more than six years before this presentation.
The symptoms started the night before the admission when she was walking out of a casino and had difficulty recognizing her vehicle and finding her way back home, which she attributed to exhaustion. The patient noticed her color blindness upon waking up when she looked out of the window and could not see the trees green color. She could see black and white only and could not distinguish between different grades of the same color. The patient denied focal motor weakness, dysarthria, aphasia, gait disturbance, blurry vision, dizziness, headache, or sensory loss. She denied fever, recent trauma, and sick contacts. Upon the presentation, her vital signs were within the normal range. A general examination was unremarkable, and neurological examination showed no focal motor weakness, no sensory abnormalities, no coordination deficits, no cranial nerve abnormalities, and no visual field defects.
MRI of the brain without contrast was done upon admission and demonstrated an area of acute/subacute stroke involving the medial margin of the left occipital and left posterior temporal lobe. No associated hemorrhagic transformation was found in the field of stroke. The MRI also confirmed a large area of old cortical infarct involving the right temporal, right frontal, right parietal, and margin of the right occipital lobe, including encephalomalacia and surrounding gliosis (Figure ).
A color testing using the “Ishihara test” revealed undifferentiated color blindness with binocular and uniocular testing of the right and left eyes. She could not recognize some