A 52-year-old woman with no history of smoking or history of malignancy presented with bilateral breast tenderness and a palpable mass in her right outer breast. Screening mammograms performed 1.5 years prior to the development of symptoms were negative. Diagnostic mammograms were obtained to evaluate the breast symptomatology and demonstrated 2 new masses in the right breast and 1 in the left ( and ). Note that the largest/palpable mass appeared oval in shape with circumscribed margins. Since these masses were new from the prior study, further evaluation with ultrasound was performed. Targeted breast ultrasound confirmed indeterminate imaging features of the breast masses (), and findings were all classified as BI-RADS 4, suspicious. Ultrasound-guided core needle biopsies of all 3 breast masses were performed at an outside institution. Histopathologic examination of all 3 masses was consistent with high grade neuroendocrine neoplasm. No ductal carcinoma in situ was observed. Breast markers including ER, PR, and HER2 were negative. Synaptophysin and chromogranin were diffusely positive in the tumor cells, supportive of neuroendocrine origin. Immunohistochemistry was negative for pankeratin, cytokeratin 7, cytokeratin 20, GATA-3, and CD45 (LCA). TTF-1 positivity suggested the possibility of a lung primary, and absence of CDX-2 made a gastrointestinal primary less likely . Ki-67 expression was reported as high as 70%.
CT of the chest, abdomen, and pelvis, PET/CT, and MRI of the brain were performed for initial staging. In addition to the biopsied bilateral breast masses, imaging demonstrated a 2.2 cm right lower lobe pulmonary nodule in a central location (), ipsilateral hilar and mediastinal lymphadenopathy (), a single 1.1 cm liver lesion (), and a nodule in the right temporal subcutaneous tissues (). No axillary lymphadenopathy was noted. Based on imaging and pathology, this was determined to be a primary lung small cell carcinoma with metastases, including bilateral breast metastases. This was staged as T1c N