A 73-year-old woman presented with persistent mid and lower abdominal pain. She is known to have IBS, and blood investigations showed iron deficiency anemia. At the time of presentation, the patient had no relevant history of medical comorbidities nor history of smoking; National Early Warning Score (NEWS) was 1 (blood tests outlined in ). She was referred for abdominopelvic ultrasonography which revealed left renal mass around 18 cm with a mixed solid and cystic component; also, hypoechoic foci were noted within the pancreas (Figures and ).
Subsequent chest CT and CT urogram were done and confirmed a large left renal mass of 18 cm × 10 cm × 12 cm with central necrosis and peripheral hypervascularity (). The left renal vein was patent. The adrenal gland looked separable from the mass. Multiple hypervascular foci were noted within the pancreas. Small lung nodules were also noted. Multidisciplinary team (MDT) decision was for cytoreductive nephrectomy and to consider systemic therapy.
A month later, the patient had an open left nephrectomy. Renal cell carcinoma, clear cell type grade II, with no lymphovascular invasion was evident in pathological assessment; surgical margins were clear; and the tumor was classified as grade II pT3a clear cell renal cancer with evident renal vein involvement and no involvement of Gerota's fascia, adrenal gland, perinephric fat, or adjacent organs.
She had evidence of a small volume of metastatic disease in her preoperative imaging. Follow-up every 3 months was scheduled; interval scans in between guided by the clinical examination were done.
Initially, the patient had shown stable minimal progress of the metastatic disease for which systemic therapy was not indicated at that time. 16-month postnephrectomy, CT follow-up revealed stable chest disease with new hepatic metastasis for which she started sunitinib treatment (). Three months later, brain CT showed brain metastasis after she got an episode of confusion (). So full head radiotherapy was started