A 37-year-old Thai woman was referred to our institution for fixation of multiple recurring pathological fractures of both upper and lower extremities. Five years ago, she had sustained fractures of the right shoulder, left elbow, and right femoral shaft after falling on the ground. She received internal fixation of those fractures, as illustrated in Supplementary 1. One month previously, she had been admitted to a local hospital because of fractures of the right distal humerus and left tibial shaft without history of trauma. While staying at that hospital, a new fracture occurred at the left femoral shaft. Since complicated orthopedic procedures for fixation of her fractures were anticipated, she was subsequently transferred to our hospital.
She reported urinary frequency, with more than 10 nocturia episodes per night, accompanied by increased thirst. She was a non-smoker and did not have a history of diabetes, hypertension, or other chronic diseases. She denied a family history of any metabolic bone diseases or genetic disorders.
A musculoskeletal examination showed slightly varus malalignment of the right elbow and shortening with external rotation deformity of the left leg, and painful swelling of the left tibia. A neck examination did not reveal thyroid gland enlargement, thyroid nodules, or palpable neck masses.
A review of plain radiographs revealed multiple fractures with diffuse osteopenia. Brown tumors were also observed at multiple sites (the shaft of the right humerus, the proximal shaft of the right radius and ulnar, the proximal shaft of the left femur, and the shaft of the left tibia; Fig. ). Moreover, a bone survey showed a salt-and-pepper appearance of the skull, while a rugger-jersey appearance was observed in a lateral spine radiograph (Fig. ). These findings were consistent with osteitis fibrosa cystica, prompting further laboratory investigations for PHPT.
The patient’s initial laboratory investigations are listed in Table . She had elevated serum calcium (13.6 mg/dL); low phosphorus (2