A 52-year-old man presented to the emergency department with a 30-min history of chest pain. Prior to presentation, the patient had severe chest pain with transient loss of consciousness after intramuscular administration of 80 mg phloroglucinol to treat abdominal pain caused by right ureteral calculi. The patient's risk factors and past medical history included active tobacco use, diabetes mellitus for 6 years and treatment with insulin, and a known history of coronary artery disease. Two months earlier, the patient received stent implantation in the proximal right coronary artery (RCA), and the distal RCA showed 75% stenosis without percutaneous coronary intervention. He was taking aspirin, ticagrelor, and atorvastatin.
Vital signs on arrival showed a blood pressure of 82/46 mmHg. Notably, erythematous rash was found throughout the chest, abdomen and limbs of the patient (). The patient was first diagnosed with a systemic allergic reaction. We administered intravenous fluids and norepinephrine to maintain a blood pressure >90/60 mmHg. Dexamethasone (10 mg) and promethazine (25 mg) were administered to treat his allergic reaction. An initial twelve-lead electrocardiogram (ECG) immediately after admission showed ST-segment elevation in leads II, III and aVF (). Acute inferior myocardial infarction due to RCA occlusion was also considered. Emergency coronary angiography was performed (the right coronary angiography results after stent implantation 2 months earlier was shown in ), and the results revealed severe stenosis in the distal RCA (). Intravascular ultrasound showed plaque rupture and thrombosis (). The minimum lumen area at the stenosis was 3.0 mm2, and the plaque burden was 80.7%. Percutaneous coronary intervention was performed in the distal RCA with a 3.5 mm × 38 mm stent. Coronary angiography after stent implantation showed an acceptable angiographic result with a thrombolysis in myocardial infarction (TIMI) flow grade of 3 (). The procedure was successful, and the patient's symptoms were relieved completely. Postoperative ECG indicated ST-segment elevation in leads