A 73 y/o man with no smoking history and a diagnosis of RA was referred to the pulmonary clinic for multiple pulmonary nodules in a peri-lymphatic pattern (). Patient was noted to have progressive pulmonary nodules that have been increasing in size ().
His rheumatologist planned to start him on TNF-alpha inhibitors for his RA and wanted to evaluate for infections and malignant causes prior to proceeding with the treatment. He was asymptomatic and denied any respiratory complaints. At the time of presentation, he was being treated with leflunomide, hydroxychloroquine and sulfasalazine. Pt is a Navy veteran with exposure to asbestos while he was in the Navy. Following his discharge from the Navy, he worked 10 years overseeing production of plastic and metal parts for guided radar systems. He then transitioned to working in residential construction, hanging, siding and replacing windows. He also worked on restoring brick on old houses by stripping off paint for about 5 years.
Pulmonary function test (PFT) revealed mild obstructive ventilator defect with FEV1/FVC 66%, FEV1 of 3.13L, 94% predicted. He underwent bronchoscopy with transbronchial biopsies of the right upper lobe nodules. Pathology revealed a necrotic tissue () with central silica crystals visualized under polarized light which was consistent with silico-anthracotic nodules. The biopsies were negative for malignancy. There was no evidence of infection on bronchoalveolar lavage. His AFB and fungal cultures were also negative.
Three years following his biopsy, the patient presented with lower extremity edema and dyspnea on exertion. He was found to have worsening renal failure with subsequent renal biopsy showing a mixture of minimal change disease (MCD) and focal segmental glomerulosclerosis (FSGS). The staining was negative for amyloid and no silica deposits were identified. He also underwent right heart catheterization that showed mild pulmonary hypertension with mean PAP of 33. CT chest did not show worsening or progression of the nodule