A 40-year-old woman with an amenorrhea of 5.5 weeks was admitted to the Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology of Foggia Hospital with acute onset of poor vaginal bleeding and mild cramping lower abdominal pain. Regarding her obstetric history, she had a normal vaginal delivery and two cesarean sections. The physical examination was remarkable only for the mild lower abdominal tenderness to deep palpation, a small amount of bleeding from the external cervical os, and a mild pain of the uterus. Laboratory data revealed a quantitative serum human chorionic gonadotropin level of 53,539 mIU/mL. A transvaginal ultrasound showed a gestational sac containing a yolk sac and an embryonic pole with cardiac activity (), located in the anterior lower uterine wall near a previous cesarean scar. We repeated an ultrasound scan the day after the initial examination and confirmed a persistent gestational sac within the anterior uterine isthmus, close to the anatomic location of the previous cesarean scar (type 1, with preferential development of the pregnancy toward the uterine cavity). There was neither uterine bleeding nor any amount of blood in the abdominal cavity.
The patient was informed about the details of the procedure and signed an informed consent to allow anonymized data collection for research purposes. All procedures performed in the study were in accordance with the ethical standards of the institutional research committee and with the 1964 Helsinki declaration and its later amendments or comparable ethical standards. Approval for the procedure was obtained from the local Ethics and Research Committee. This report follows the Consensus-based Clinical Case Reporting (CARE) guidelines, available through the Enhancing the QUAlity and Transparency Of health Research (EQUATOR) network ( accessed on 15 January 2021).
The patient underwent UAE as the first step of treatment. The right femoral artery was cannulated using a flexible angiographic catheter through which the uterine arteries were reached. After selective arteriography, the left uterine artery was totally embolized with a gelatin hemostatic sponge (SPON