The patient was a 41-year-old female administrative assistant with a history of coldness and pain in the right upper limb with onset 1 year previously and progressive deterioration. Complaints worsened with movement of the upper limb, primarily abduction, limiting the patient’s activities. She reported no comorbidities, local trauma, or smoking. On physical examination, the right hand was pale and cold and capillary refill time was elevated. The right brachial pulse was weaker than its contralateral counterpart and right radial and ulnar pulses were absent, with biphasic flow on duplex imaging. The brachial-brachial index was 0.64. The contralateral upper limb had strong pulses. There was no murmur in the right supraclavicular region. Adson, hyperabduction (), and costoclavicular postural maneuvers were positive. The Ross maneuver was negative. There were no neurological changes or muscular atrophy. X-rays of the chest and cervical spine showed a cervical rib joined to the first rib on the right (). Computed tomography angiography of the chest with hyperabduction of the upper limbs showed compression of the right subclavian artery by the cervical rib and thickening of the artery wall, without significant stenosis. There was no aneurysm (). Having diagnosed aTOS, surgical decompression was indicated.
Under general anesthesia, a right supraclavicular approach was obtained, with anterior and medial scalenectomy, followed by total resection of the cervical rib and partial resection of the first rib. The subclavian artery wall was slightly thickened, although without reducing pulsation (). Immediately after decompression, the patient’s right brachial pulse was strong and unchanged by abduction of the upper limb. Since the structural change to the artery was discrete and without effect on pulsation, we decided not to resect the injured segment. The patient’s recovery was uneventful and she was prescribed analgesics and motor physiotherapy. She was discharged on the fourth postoperative day. At the 30-day follow-up consultation, she reported no limitation of