In August 2015, following a maxilla-facial trauma, a 10-year-old boy patient was admitted at the maxilla-facial department. The patient had no general health problems, was not taking any treatment, had no allergies and was not subjected to passive smoking. The young patient had a significant dental Class II malocclusion (Angle classification) due to skeletal Class II mandibular etiology (Ballard classification). Clinical and radiological examination revealed a complete extrusive luxation of 11 and 21 and intrusive luxation of 12 and 22. Practitioners decided to place a Dautrey arch. Two weeks later, the patient came to the dental emergency due to injuries caused by the Dautrey arch (). Three months later, after removing Dautrey arch, a multi-attach treatment combined with Powerscop was put in place (). Following the beginning of his orthodontic treatment, in December 2015, the patient’s attending dentist performed the endodontic treatment of 11 and 21, after the occurrence of root resorption consecutive to the absence of endodontic treatment immediately after the trauma. The patient was then referred to the endodontic department 3 years after trauma. The first treatment phase is described in and , , , , and .
In February 2020, following the avulsion of the tooth 12, clinical and radiographic examination revealed a bone deficiency in the buccal area. The cephalometric analysis from October 2019 showed that the patient was in his pubertal growth spurt []. Combined with the patient’s young age and his incomplete growth, this contraindicated the placement of conventional diameter implants. Another option for managing this clinical case was to maintain the gap between 13 and 23 by placing a removable prosthesis. However, there is some risk of blocking the jaw’s growth, as well as a lack of acceptance of the device. The patient chose not to have a removable prosthesis. The patient wanted a fixed, comfortable and esthetic solution. Bone capital had to be preserved for implant placement once growth was complete.