A 43-year-old male from Guatemala presented as a direct admission for untreated HIV complicated by cytomegalovirus (CMV) ileitis, 40 lb weight loss over one year, worsening abdominal pain, and odynophagia. His medical history was notable for untreated HIV diagnosed six years prior to admission and a remote history of methamphetamine abuse.
Two months prior to his hospitalization, the patient was hospitalized at an outside hospital in California for abdominal pain and a 40 lb weight loss. The initial CT abdomen showed an SBO and thickening in the terminal ileum, concerning inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). An esophagogastroduodenoscopy (EGD) at that time was unremarkable though biopsies were obtained. A colonoscopy demonstrated ulcers in the terminal ileum, and the patient was ultimately discharged on a two-week course of prednisone 40 mg with concern for new onset of Crohn’s disease. The biopsy pathologies subsequently returned with intraepithelial lymphocytosis on the duodenal tissue biopsy, scattered CMV inclusions by immunochemistry on the terminal ileum tissue biopsy, and negative for IBD, but these pathology reports, unfortunately, resulted after the patient had been discharged and he was unable to be reached to initiate therapy. There were no stains performed for histoplasmosis specifically, although the reasons are unclear.
Two months later, he was again admitted to the hospital for worsening abdominal pain. Upon admission, the patient stated that he had been having diffuse abdominal pain and intermittent non-bloody diarrhea for two months, as well as weight loss of 40 lbs over the past year. He had also experienced persistent throat pain with swallowing for the past month and had been eating significantly less due to the odynophagia. He denied dysphagia to solids and liquids, acid reflux, fever, chills, headache, joint pains, and new rashes. He stated that he had not taken any anti-HIV medications since diagnosis six years ago.
On initial physical examination, vital signs were as follows: afebrile