A 60-year-old man presented to the emergency room with the sudden onset of black discoloration of extensive patches of skin over buttocks extending to the thigh after receiving one dose of injection diclofenac IM in his left buttock 5 days back. A local health care worker administered the drug to relieve the patient from a transient episode of intense headache. The patient experienced severe burning sensation over that area which gradually turned red. He had applied ice pack compression over the site with the hope of getting some relief. The lesion progressed in subsequent days to form blisters, which ruptured and finally turned black. Over 4 to 5 days, it spread to the opposite buttock, the upper thighs, lower back, and the groin, giving it an odd appearance. The pain had subsided over time with resulting extensive gangrenous patches of skin. He had no complaints of fever or other signs of systemic infection. The person never had a similar experience previously despite having received IM diclofenac for various causes. He had no known history of any drug reactions or allergies in the past. He was a known smoker and ganja addict, consumed alcohol, and was without any known medical comorbidities.
On examination, there were extensive areas of necrosis covered with black eschar present over the bilateral gluteal region and lateral upper thighs (left more than right) extending into the anterior aspect of left groin (
). The surrounding skin was erythematous and indurated with pus discharge at places from the margins. There was sparing of the genitals and perineum. All peripheral pulses (dorsalis pedis, popliteal, and femoral pulses) were palpable and bilaterally symmetrical, and no sensory or motor deficit noted over the lower limbs. No considerable delay in the capillary refill time was measured over the lower extremities. We did not have evidence of skin discoloration or ulceration elsewhere. Examination of abdomen and cardiovascular and respiratory systems revealed no abnormalities.