A 55-year old male presented to an academic medical center in February 2020 with a six-week history of increasing midline back pain. He had a history of chronic mid- and lower back pain as the result of degenerative disc disease, however his pain had abruptly worsened in the 6 weeks prior to presentation. Pain was worsened with trying to sit up straight or walk. Pain was partially relieved with acetaminophen, ibuprofen, and oxycodone 5 mg tablets taken as needed. He reported no associated fevers, chills, or night sweats. He did not recall a febrile illness prior to the onset of symptoms. He did report anorexia and 15-pound weight loss in the last 6 weeks. His medical history included chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, chronic hepatitis C infection, hyperlipidemia, generalized anxiety disorder, and lumbar degenerative disc disease. His surgical history was notable for cervical spine laminectomy in the remote past. His social history was notable for heavy and ongoing tobacco use with a 60 pack-year smoking history. He denied alcohol or illicit drug use including intravenous drug use.
He was afebrile and hemodynamically stable on presentation. Physical exam revealed a gaunt Caucasian male in moderate distress due to pain. Poor dentition was noted. His cardiopulmonary examination was unremarkable. On spinal examination, no bony tenderness was elicited upon palpation of the thoracic and lumbar spine, however paraspinal tenderness was noted in the lumbar spine. Neurologic examination including strength and sensation of the lower extremities was intact. Babinski reflex was downward bilaterally.
MRI with and without gadolinium contrast revealed abnormal enhancement of the lower endplate of the L2 vertebral body as well as diffuse enhancement of the L3 vertebral body with irregularity of the upper endplate. This abnormal enhancement extended to the intervertebral disc. Findings were suggestive of discitis with osteomyelitis not excluded. Additionally, there was enhancement and thickening in the anterior epidural space measuring 2 mm × 4 mm which may represent epidural abscess or hematoma (Fig. ). Laboratory evaluation