A 28-year-old African American female with a 3-year history of rheumatoid arthritis presented to the emergency department (ED) in September 2019 with fever of 101.5 °F, chills, and right ear pain. This ED visit was preceded by multiple hospital admissions for similar symptoms of fever, chills, and productive cough. In July 2019, 2 months prior to the ED visit, the patient had an admitting diagnosis of sepsis secondary to bilateral community acquired pneumonia treated with doxycycline and cefuroxime, but the course was complicated by neutropenia.
One week prior to her September 2019 hospital admission, the patient went to the urgent care for persistent fever for 3 days and right ear pain. She was diagnosed with otitis media and started on amoxicillin. The patient also presented with multiple lip ulcers and was given lidocaine. The mother, her health proxy, noted the symptoms did not improve after 2 days, so she brought her to the ED. Patient was admitted for sepsis secondary to right middle lobe community acquired pneumonia and urinary tract infection. In addition to RA, the patient’s medical history includes asthma, pneumonia, mild intellectual disability, and anemia. Due to the patient’s mental disability, her mother, who is her primary caregiver and health proxy, provided the review of system. According to the mother, associated symptoms included fever, chills, fatigue, ear pain, sore throat, productive cough, abdominal pain, and myalgia. The mother denied any recent travel or any sick contacts. No nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, or dizziness were noted. There is no family history of rheumatoid arthritis, felty syndrome, or recurrent infections. There is no history of previous or current alcohol, smoking, or recreational drug use. The patient was not sexually active. Physical examination revealed the patient was febrile at 101.5 °F, tachycardic at 117 beats per minute with normal rhythm, intact distal pulses, normal breath sounds bilaterally with no wheezing, bilateral tympanic membrane injection without effusion