A 68-year-old female patient presented to the emergency department with refractory neuroglycopenic symptoms. In the emergency room, her glucose level was noted to be <50 mg/dL on multiple occasions despite repeated administrations of IV dextrose and PO intake. She described a 3-week history of episodes characterized by confusion, diaphoresis, and severe weakness which were improved with ingestion of food. She also described a weight loss of 30 pounds over the last 4-5 months despite normal appetite. She had no history of type 1 or type 2 diabetes mellitus and did not use insulin or antidiabetic medications. Medical history included hypertension and gastroesophageal reflux, and she did not endorse a history of smoking, alcohol, or recreational drug use. No pertinent family history was identified. On physical examination, she was found to have a palpable, mildly tender right upper quadrant mass and palpable hepatomegaly. A CT scan demonstrated evidence of an 18.6 cm mass projecting inferior to the liver and superior to the right kidney, in the approximate location of the right adrenal gland (). The mass was described as lobular and formed by 3 confluent mass lesions. No other suspicious lesions were described in the report. In addition, venogram showed severe extrinsic compression of the inferior vena cava secondary to the retroperitoneal mass.
Clinical workup of her hypoglycemia proceeded as follows (). Hypoglycemia was initially prevented with a maintenance dextrose drip; however, this was discontinued to allow clinical observation of hypoglycemic episodes ideally proving or disproving Whipple's triad. Whipple's triad includes a venous glucose level less than 55 mg/dL, symptoms of hypoglycemia, and resolution of symptoms after glucose administration. Dextrose drip was discontinued, her glucose level decreased to 47 mg/dL, and she became symptomatic. At that time, C-peptide, insulin, pro-insulin, and beta-hydroxybutyrate levels were measured and all were found to be low, suggesting IGF-2 secretion. IGF-2 was measured during that