A 38-year-old Chinese man visited the Department of Periodontics (West China Hospital of Stomatology, Sichuan University, Sichuan, China) with gingival enlargement, loose teeth, and tooth loss. The chief complaint of the patient was generalized gingival enlargement beginning 2 years ago, sometimes with pus. The teeth gradually loosened several months ago, and the left maxillary first molar was lost following severe pain. A local doctor diagnosed him as periodontitis, and then he was referred to the Department of Periodontics for periodontal therapy.
Medical history: The patient was a smoker for 20 years, averaging 20+ cigarettes per day. There was no relevant family history and no special disease history, no history of allergies, and the patient was not on any drugs. The extraoral examination showed facial symmetry and no obvious abnormalities in the lymph nodes of the head and neck. Intraoral examination showed that the patient has extremely poor oral hygiene, with a mass of dental plaque and debris covering almost all the teeth. The teeth had subgingival and supragingival calculus from the incisors to the molars. Gingivae were generally enlarged and red, and the buccal gingivae of the left mandible and maxilla were even enlarged toward the occlusal surface. The involved gingivae were edematous and tender, the gingival margin was inflamed, and there was no ulceration or significant necrosis. General findings were bleeding on probing, deep periodontal pockets, and attachment loss. Tooth mobility varied from Io-IIIo, and was IIIo in the left maxillary first premolar and second premolar (Fig. A). Mucosal texture and color were basically regular. There were no specific findings in the salivary glands, and salivary gland ducts could open normally. Panoramic radiography showed generalized alveolar bone loss (ABL), especially alveolar bone resorption at the left maxillary first and second premolars, as well as the left and right posterior teeth from alveolar crest to the apical area, but the