An 80-year-old Taiwanese woman was admitted to the emergency room of our hospital with intermittent fever and colic abdominal pain lasting for 3 days. She also expressed concerns about severe back pain lasting for over 1 year, and she had no prior trauma or history of surgery. She had type 2 diabetes mellitus and hypertension, which had been under medical control for over 10 years. She was [] taking a calcium channel blocker once daily as an antihypertensive drug and [] having an insulin pen injection twice daily for diabetes control. She also had hepatitis B infection, for which she was undergoing treatment with tenofovir, and mild dementia. The patient had no history of alcohol consumption or smoking. Her husband had died several years previously, and she had two sons and one daughter. Before retiring, she worked as a deputy section manager in a local farm alliance. In the emergency department, she had a fever (body temperature, 38.2 ℃), sinus tachycardia (heart rate, 107 beats/minute), and high blood pressure (146/84 mmHg). After admission to ward, her body temperature returned to normal (36.7 ℃), but her sinus tachycardia (108 beats/minute) and high blood pressure (136/84 mmHg) persisted. We noted bilateral proximal weakness of the lower limbs without urinary sphincter involvement. According to the patient’s caregiver, this weakness symptom had progressed over the last few years. The patient could walk short distances but was dependent on a wheelchair most of the time. Physical examination and sonography ruled out pyelonephritis and hydronephrosis. The patient’s other neurological and physical examinations reveal no abnormalities. This was the patient’s third admission to our hospital; she had been admitted twice in the previous 6 months for intermittent fever. Mid-portion urine was collected during each admission, and routine urine analysis revealed pyuria, positive urine nitrates, and bacteriuria. Urine aerobic culture showed mixed growth of P. mirabilis and Escherichia coli during