A 58-year-old designated female at birth with a past medical history of insomnia and depression who presented to clinic requesting HIV pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP), because he anticipate having new sexual partners soon. He is not currently sexually active. He is open to multiple types of sexual encounters, but has no planned partner and is not sure yet what sexual practices he will participate in. He achieved appropriate developmental milestones as a child. The patient wanted to transition 16 years back but a lack of awareness of medical and surgical interventions available and resources held him back. He came through with his decision to transition 15 months ago with a good support system around him. The patient has no prior history of cerebrovascular accidents, thromboembolism, myocardial infarction, seizures, or fractures. He is currently using three pumps of topical 1.62% 20.25 mg testosterone per day and has been on testosterone for 15 months. He is tolerating it well without any side effects. He denies any alcohol use and smokes half a pack per day of cigarettes. Current medications apart from testosterone include vitamin D supplements, melatonin, folic acid, and magnesium oxide.
His hemoglobin was 14.7 g/dL and hematocrit was 44%. The patient’s creatinine increased since the initiation of testosterone therapy. Creatinine before starting hormonal therapy was 0.9 mg/dL, and the recent laboratory findings showed creatinine of 1.2 mg/dL. Liver function tests were all within a normal range. The HIV antibody test, gonorrhea, chlamydia, and syphilis screen were negative. The urinalysis showed that the urine culture was negative and renal ultrasound showed normal size kidneys with no hydronephrosis.
Given the patient’s age of 58, the weight of 147 pounds, and using the birth gender, the estimated creatinine clearance of 48 mL/min was calculated per Modification of Diet in Renal Disease (MDRD) and 52 mL/min per Chronic Kidney Disease Epidemiology Collaboration (CKD