A 59 year old male presented with a 2 week history of progressively worsening exertional dyspnea (NYHA class II), bilateral lower extremity edema and abdominal distension. He denied any fever, chills, chest pain, cough, orthopnea, paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea, palpitations, nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain, syncope or weight loss. He presented to the Emergency Room after his cardiologist found a right atrial mass on echocardiogram during an office visit. His past medical history was significant for treated colorectal cancer, hyperlipidemia and gout.
The patient was diagnosed with colonic cancer 5.5 years earlier for which he underwent surgical resection with right hemicolectomy. The patient did not receive any adjuvant chemotherapy or radiation. He continued to follow up with his primary oncologist with surveillance CT scans and had completed his 5 year surveillance.
Family history was significant for colon cancer in his uncle and breast cancer in two of his sisters. He denied any tobacco use or alcohol intake.
The physical examination was remarkable for decreased lung sounds at the lung bases, moderate ascites and bilateral 1+ pitting edema up to the knees. EKG and cardiac enzymes were unremarkable. The patient underwent a CT angiogram of the chest which revealed a 4.0 cm low attenuating right atrial mass. The lung parenchyma had some ground-glass opacities bilaterally which were thought to be related to motion artefact or less likely suggestive of pulmonary edema. Deep venous thrombosis was ruled out with a negative lower extremity Doppler. The following day, he underwent paracentesis which showed a Serum Ascitis Albumin Gap of 1.4 and 726 nucleated cells (41% lymphocytes, 54% macrophages and 5% neutrophils). Cytologic examination was negative for malignancy, with findings notable for mesothelial cells and macrophages. Cardiac MRI showed a 8.3 cm × 6.5 cm right atrial mass extending from the suprarenal IVC into the hepatic veins and occupying the majority of the right atrium. The