A 56-year-old female patient with a pertinent history of schizophrenia, primary angle-closure glaucoma with the left eye, chronic bronchitis, coronary heart disease, and renal calculi was brought to the emergency department with altered mental status and mild respiratory disorder. Three months ago, after drug withdrawal without the guidance of doctors, she began to have near-total absence of motion and speech and refused to take antipsychotics and food. Even though she had been hospitalized in another hospital a month earlier and given antipsychotics and nutritional support, her condition had not improved. A day earlier, the patient had been noted to open her mouth to breath, followed by the whirring sound. According to her husband, she had no history of alcohol, tobacco, or substance abuse. However, her compliance with antipsychotics was so poor that the control of psychosis was relatively ineffective, and her ability to contact and communicate had been impaired in recent years. Neither she nor her family could provide further details.
Her physical examination revealed that she had a weight of 45 kg, a temperature of 36.4?C, a blood pressure of 129/84 mmHg, and a pulse of 105/min. She was bed-bound, except for relieving herself, clear in consciousness with a blank and blunted facial expression, and refused to answer questions. She was unable to cooperate with most of the physical examinations because she refused to follow instructions. Her bilateral pupils were equal and round. The left pupil was fixed and had no light reflex and the right pupil was reactive to light. Of note is that her left horizontal gaze palsy was obvious, but her eyes were closed tightly most of the time. She presented with increased muscular tension and tendon hyperreflexia in extremity. Other than that, the remainder of the neurologic examination was unremarkable or uncompleted.
Her initial laboratory workup was as follows: white blood cell count, 13.03 × 103/μL with 88.80% neutrophils; C-reactive protein,