We report the case of a 49-year-old man, with unremarkable past medical and family history but with an 80 pack-years of smoking. He was admitted in the Surgery Department in June 2020 for an acute intestinal obstruction revealed by an abdominal pain with vomiting. An abdominal computed tomography scan (CT scan) was performed in emergency and concluded to an intussusception upstream of a well-limited tumor with no sign of intestinal distress.
The patient was operated in emergency. The intraoperative findings showed a jejunojejunal intussusception located 1 meter from the duodenojejunal angle related to a well-limited 3 cm tumor. A resection of 10 cm of the intestine including the mass was performed with an end-to-end anastomosis. Pathologic examination revealed a pT2 undifferentiated carcinoma with a sarcomatoid component involving all layers of the jejunum and expressing only cytokeratin 7. Cytokeratin 20, CD34, thyroid transcription factor-1, CD117 (c-kit,) and HMB45 were all negative ().
A subsequent thoracic CT scan was performed to complete the extension report, which showed a polylobed mass extending to the three lobes of the right lung measuring 6 cm, with right interbronchial lymph nodes (). No further evident metastases were revealed. A fibroscopy showed an inflammatory intersegmental spur of the right lobe; biopsy was negative. Transparietal biopsy was difficult to perform. The patient was operated; intraoperatively, there was a large extension of the mass of the right lung in the fissure making arterial dissection at this level impossible so a lobectomy could not be performed. The patient had a pneumonectomy with lymph node dissection. Postoperative recovery was eventful in the patient.
Histological examination revealed a combined lung tumor appearance with a predominant component (80%) consisting of a small cell neuroendocrine carcinoma associated with a solid adenocarcinomatous component, with massive infiltration of the lung, rupture of the visceral pleura, and extension to parietal fat tissue but with free surgical