In 2009, A 37 year-old male former smoker (1 pack-year history) with no significant medical history began working in the flavoring room and grinding area of a coffee facility that had no respiratory protection requirements or recommendations. He reported mucous membrane irritation, as well as wheezing and chest tightness that worsened with exertion when working in the flavoring room and grinding area beginning in 2010 after several months of employment. Initially, these symptoms resolved after he left those areas of the facility, but his work-related symptoms slowly progressed until there was no discernible work-related pattern. In 2013, he moved to the packaging area but continued to flavor and grind coffee at least 1 full day per week. Beginning in 2014, he developed dyspnea, intermittent cough, and a reduced sense of smell that did not improve when away from work. He reported that during 2014–2016, he experienced frequent upper respiratory infections and was treated with antibiotics several times for presumed pneumonia but received no diagnostic testing.
Our 2016 evaluation of the workforce included pulmonary function testing (). This worker's spirometry revealed a moderate mixed obstructive and restrictive pattern, and impulse oscillometry was consistent with peripheral airways obstruction; neither the spirometric nor oscillometry measures improved post-bronchodilator (). We recommended the patient seek care from a pulmonologist for evaluation of potential flavoring-related lung disease based on his symptoms, pulmonary function testing, and work history.
The patient was raised in Mexico and reported no childhood history of lung problems. He denied a history before 2010 of frequent respiratory infections, exercise intolerance, frequent cough, or other breathing problems that would indicate asthma or other underlying lung disease. He immigrated to the United States in the late 1990s. He had worked at a hard metal mine in Mexico for <1 year; he had no other work history concerning for lung disease. He reported no notable travel, hobbies, or animal exposures. Pertinent negatives on review