A 70-year-old Chinese Han man was hospitalized in August 2017 after 2 weeks of recurrent severe intercostal pain with no skin herpes or fever. He had transient incomplete intestinal obstruction and urinary retention for 2 weeks before admission. On arrival, the nature of the intercostal pain (T9–10 level) was prickling or cutting, which was initially improved with pregabalin. Thus, we suspected early herpes zoster virus-related neuralgia, which is the most common form of neuralgia in the Department of Neurology. He had smoked 20 cigarettes per day for over 20 years. He was diagnosed with AS 40 years ago. He had a history of hypertension and sequelae of cerebral hemorrhage for more than 20 years, resulting in impaired speech and right limb paralysis, and had been bedridden for many years. Moreover, he had epilepsy for approximately 15 years, benign prostatic hyperplasia for 10 years, osteoporosis for approximately 20 years, a skin ulcer on his right foot for 6 years, and chronic heart failure for 20 years. He had also undergone right hip surgery 20 years ago, but had no hereditary conditions.
Upon admission, the patient’s blood pressure was 128/60 mmHg, with coarse respiratory sounds in both lungs. He displayed clear consciousness, slurred speech, grade 3 right upper extremity muscle strength, grade 2 right lower extremity muscle strength, grade 4 left upper extremity muscle strength (which could be affected by severe body pain), grade 3 left lower extremity muscle strength, hyperalgesia in the trunk region (T9–10 level), and a negative pyramidal tract sign. His thoracolumbar spine was also rigid, resulting in limited movement.
We performed supplementary examinations after his admission. His fecal occult blood test results were negative, and his levels of thyrotropin, fasting blood sugar, glycosylated hemoglobin, alpha-fetoprotein, carcinoembryonic antigen, antinuclear antibodies, and carbohydrate antigen 125 were all normal. No significant abnormalities were detected with routine blood tests, and his C-reactive protein levels were also normal. Pelvic (