A 53-year-old male patient was evaluated at our institution for anal pain. His past medical history is unremarkable except for tobacco use and previous hemorrhoidectomies. The patient had undergone a colonoscopy in the previous year that was normal. At that moment, the anal canal was reported as irregular and biopsies were performed and displayed benign superficial hyperplastic changes.
Due to chronic and refractory anal pain, the decision was to perform an anorectal examination under general anesthesia, which showed an anterolateral ulcerated lesion suggestive of a neoplasm. Biopsies were performed. Histopathological analysis revealed the presence of a high-grade neuroendocrine small-cell carcinoma []. The proliferation was located at the squamocolumnar junction of the anal canal. The biopsy showed a submucosal proliferation of malignant cells with a high nucleo/cytoplasmic ratio and pleomorphism. A high number of apoptotic bodies and crush artefacts were observed. The malignant cells were shown to express keratins, synaptophysin and few residual cells expressed chromogranin B. Squamous, melanocytic, and lymphocytic markers were negative.
An endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) was performed and showed a 2 × 1 cm anorectal lesion invading the superior portion of the internal anal sphincter []. No suspicious lymph nodes were noted. A positron emission tomography scan was performed and showed a hypermetabolic lesion in the anal canal with a maximum standardized uptake value (SUVmax) of 4,1. A computed tomography (CT) scan of the abdomen and pelvis failed to show the primary lesion and did not display any metastases. Thoracic and cerebral CT scans did not show any metastatic lesions. A benign appearing pulmonary nodule was noted. An octreoscan was performed and did not show any suspicious lesions.
The case was discussed at the multidisciplinary cancer committee and the joint decision was to proceed with chemoradiotherapy (CRT). The patient received 4 cycles of cisplatin and etoposide during a period of 4 months. The first chemotherapy cycle was not well-tolerated, and the regimen was thus