The patient is a 72-year-old man capable of independently performing activities of daily living. Regarding his medical history, he developed gastric ulceration at 18 years of age and underwent partial gastric resection. He was treated with rivaroxaban 10 mg / day for atrial fibrillation. Also, he regularly inhales formoterol fumarate for managing bronchial asthma. He used to smoke 20 cigarettes/day and drink more than three cups of sake between 20 and 65 years of age. He reported no positive history of food or drug allergy.
Approximately 40 days before admission to our department, the patient developed pain in the lower left abdominal region. Eight days later, he visited a hospital where he underwent non-contrast computed tomography (CT) of the abdomen that showed multiple colonic stenosis. Colon cancer was suspected, and the patient was admitted to the facility immediately. The patient also had fever (38 °C) on admission and, therefore, underwent thoracoabdominal contrast-enhanced CT that showed pulmonary thromboembolism (Fig. ). Therefore, the dose of rivaroxaban was increased from 10 mg/day to 30 mg/day on Day 14 (days numbered from day of admission at the first facility).
Then, he underwent fasting treatment and received maintenance intravenous fluids. On Day 14 of hospitalization, he underwent colonoscopy that showed stenosis in the hepatic flexure of the transverse colon and a circumferential ulcer of the sigmoid colon. On administration of a contrast, a 55-mm stenosis was found in the transverse and descending colon (Fig. ). Pathological examination of the stenosed colon tissue revealed intranuclear inclusion bodies and a positive immunostaining for anti-CMV antibodies and CMV antigens (CMV DNA viral load was not performed). Consequently, the patient was administered 5 mg/kg ganciclovir (GCV) every 12 h since Day 27. Although the patient’s abdominal pain was relieved by the treatment, the fever was not alleviated.
Although the coagulation profile of the patient was normal on the day