A 61-year-old Caucasian man with a past medical history of hyperlipidemia, obesity (BMI 37 kg/m2), and osteoarthritis underwent a left knee arthroplasty (LKA) without complication. After undergoing surgery, he received DVT prophylaxis with two days of low molecular weight heparin while hospitalized and was then discharged home on 81 mg of aspirin daily. Prior to surgery, the patient led an active lifestyle, including regular elliptical use and golfing. Following his LKA he attended all physical therapy sessions. One month following surgery, he abruptly became lightheaded and dyspneic, with no relief of symptoms upon rest. He presented to his local emergency department where he was noted to have sinus tachycardia and hypoxia. CT pulmonary angiogram revealed a large saddle pulmonary embolism with an extension of the clot into multiple lobar and segmental branches (Figures -).
Cardiac enzymes were normal and EKG showed no ischemic changes. NT-pro-BNP was elevated at 154 pg/mL. Transthoracic echocardiogram showed moderately increased right ventricular size with moderately depressed right ventricular systolic function, and mild pulmonary hypertension, consistent with the diagnosis of submassive pulmonary embolism. He received high-flow nasal cannula and heparin and was admitted to the ICU.
During his hospital stay, he also had a Doppler ultrasound of the lower extremities revealing a non-occlusive deep venous thrombosis (DVT) in the right popliteal and peroneal veins and a head CT due to dizziness which showed no acute process. He remained hemodynamically stable and supplemental oxygen was weaned. Intravenous anticoagulation therapy with heparin was transitioned to apixaban. He was discharged home on day 6.
The patient presented to our center’s chronic thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension (CTEPH) clinic approximately three and a half months after his submassive pulmonary embolism because of persistent symptoms of postural dizziness and chest pain. He also reported paraesthesias along the back of his head, legs, and feet. His ongoing symptoms were limiting his participation in