A 69-year-old male with a past medical history of tobacco use disorder presented to the emergency department with a one-week history of worsening headache and right temporal vision loss. The patient worked as a boat mechanic, and stated that one week ago he was working on a boat engine that was leaking diesel fuel. He worked on the engine for several hours in an enclosed room with it running intermittently. Shortly after leaving work, he noticed a throbbing, dull headache located across his forehead and temporal region, as well as loss of peripheral vision in his right eye. At presentation, the patient described that the headache and vision changes had worsened, but denied any focal neurological deficits. He stated that he first went to an urgent care facility where he was diagnosed with sinusitis and prescribed amoxicillin, which did not relieve any of his symptoms.
In the emergency room, the patient was initially hypertensive with a blood pressure of 181/92 mmHg, but it improved to 141/80 mmHg without medical intervention. Neurologic examination revealed a right monocular temporal hemianopia upon visual field confrontation, resulting in an NIH stroke score of one. The patient was admitted for further evaluation of his headache and peripheral vision loss of the right eye.
On admission, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the brain showed multifocal acute infarcts in the left occipital lobe, indicating left PCA disease and no hemorrhagic transformation (Figure ). Given the signal on diffusion and enhancement, it was estimated the infarct was between three and seven days old. Computed tomography (CT) angiogram of the head pre-contrast demonstrated a small area of infarct in the left occipital lobe, corresponding with the MRI findings (Figure ). After contrast administration, the left PCA demonstrated severe stenosis in the P1 segment. The distal branches of the PCA were still opacified and the posterior communicating arteries were faintly seen. This demonstrated severe stenosis of the PCA.
There was no indication for angiography or