A 60-year-old man was presented to the medical unit in July 2020 with symptoms of respiratory problems, severe headache, cough, dizziness, and frequent vomiting. Initial physical and clinical examinations of the patient were normal and there was no underlying disease. The patient had no history of alcohol or tobacco use and was not taking any specific medications at the time. His blood pressure was 120/80 mmHg with a regular pulse rate of 112 beats/min, a respiratory rate of 22 cycles/min, and a temperature of 36 °C. While the patient had no symptoms of arrhythmia, he had mild hypoxemia with an oxygen level of 85–92% (Table ). Important laboratory findings of the patient are listed in Table . PCR on the nasopharyngeal swab sample was performed on the day of hospitalization, which confirmed the diagnosis of COVID-19. The patient was discharged from the hospital after 2 days because his symptoms were relatively mild and there were no other serious symptoms. He was admitted to the hospital 5 days later with respiratory problems, and initial examinations revealed that his oxygen saturation was then 82% on room air. The patient underwent high-resolution computed tomography (CT) scans of the lungs and CT pulmonary angiography. CT scans of the lungs (Fig. ) showed several diffuse areas of opacity in both right and left lungs, which could indicate viral pneumonia. In addition, on CT angiography of the lungs (Fig. ), several filling defects were visible in the branch of the pulmonary artery leading to the lower lobe of the right lung, which may indicate acute pulmonary embolism. The patient was started on medications including naproxen to control the muscle pain, hydroxychloroquine and famotidine with antiviral effects, zinc to boost the immune system and repair lung tissue, and neurobion to strengthen the immune system. Some anticoagulant including injected heparin and acetylsalicylic acid tablets, and high-flow oxygen were also used. The severity of COVID-19 in this patient was moderate and he