A 32-year-old Caucasian student male was admitted to our intensive care unit (ICU) for right total hemiplegia and aphasia evolving for 4 hours associated with chest discomfort.
His past medical history revealed no cardiovascular risk factors or symptoms. He was occasional cannabis smoker and reported daily consumption in the last 5 days.
An initial exam showed stable hemodynamic parameters, the patient was conscious and executed orders successfully with his left extremities, but he had an incomprehensive verbal response. An electrocardiogram showed ST-segment elevation in the anterior leads, compatible with an ST-elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI).
Emergent contrast-enhanced computed tomography (CT) scan showed spontaneous hyper-density regarding the left frontal cortex, a sub-cortical left frontal, and multiple supratentorial regions of hypodensity in a vascular distribution occurred in the white matter- grey-matter. (
) In the cervicothoracic section, it showed thrombosed dissection of the left internal carotid artery, extending over 21 mm in height. (
)
The evolution was marked by spontaneous regression within 30 minutes of ST segment elevation and appearance of anterior negative T waves.
Echocardiography showed limited left ventricular anterior and apical wall motion abnormalities with conserved systolic ejection fraction (LVEF: 55%). The laboratory results were normal except for elevated cardiac enzymes.
Early cardiac catheterization showed an acute thrombotic dissection of the proximal left descending artery with TIMI III blood flow. (
) The circumflex artery and the right coronary artery were normal. We decided to respect the lesion, and to put him under double antiplatelet therapy (clopidogrel 75 mg per day, aspirin 160 mg per day), unfractionated heparin, nitrates, and bisoprolol.
A second cerebral CT scan followed 48 hours later and showed favourable evolution of the cerebral lesions, so we decided to continue conservative treatment with close follow up. In-hospital outcome was favourable, with regression of aphasia and hemiplegia starting from the fifth day of the hospitalization. He was discharged after 15 days on