A 42-year-old male patient, presented to our surgery out-patient clinic with an abdominal discomfort evolving for 4 months with no associated fever or jaundice. The patient did not have any changes in his bowel habit. He has no past medical history expect type 2 diabetes treated with Metformin and Glimepiride, with no family history. He had not undergone any surgical procedure. He denied any tobacco or illicit drug use. His physical examination was unremarkable, with no abdominal tenderness or palpable mass. Routine laboratory investigation showed no significant findings. Abdominal ultrasonography showed irregular thickening of gallbladder wall with images of reverberation artifacts. Due to the unavailability of an , an abdominal -scan was performed, to clarify the nature of the encountered lesion. It revealed circumferential heterogeneous irregular parietal thickening of gallbladder rmeasuring19 mm causing extrinsic compression of segment V of the liver and the antropyloric region of the stomach (). No upper gastrointestinal endoscopy was performed since the extrinsic nature of the compression of the antropyloric region was evident on the CT scan. An ultrasound-guided fine-needle aspiration biopsy was performed twice to exclude malignant process. The first one was inconclusive. The second anatomopathological examination showed a proliferation of spindle cells on an inflammatory background with rather mono-formed nuclei and arranged in short bundles suggesting in the first place an inflammatory myofibroblastic tumor with absence of carcinomatous proliferation on these biopsies. The patient underwent an abdominal MRI showing diffuse parietal thickening measuring 1 cm with multiple cystic pockets (). At the end of this investigation, the most likely diagnosis was gallbladder adenomyomatosis. The patient underwent laparoscopic cholecystectomy with no intraprocedural complications. He was discharged on the third post-operative day. The final pathological finding revealed the following: Gross examination showed an expansion of gallbladder wall with numerous small cysts (), and histology showed multiple Rokitansky-Aschoff sinuses prolapsing between muscle bundles (). The post-operative course was uneventful. The diagnosis of gallbladder