A 33-year-old white woman was referred to our outpatient clinic after suffering four atraumatic fractures between the age of 30 and 32 years. The fractures included a spontaneous fracture of the third right metatarsal bone with a spontaneous refracture 2 months later, a longitudinal fracture of the left tibia with protracted healing, as well as a fracture of the right femoral neck treated surgically, likewise with protracted healing. The patient reported contracting a hepatitis B virus infection in her childhood from a blood transfusion after a spinal surgery for neuroblastoma. Consequently, she has been treated with tenofovir disoproxil over the course of 15 years. Furthermore, she also received a course of radio- and chemotherapy as a part of the treatment. In addition, medical history revealed an early colon cancer at the age of 25 years, which was treated by surgery and chemotherapy. A genetic testing for most common genetic causes of breast and colon cancer was declined by the patient. Laboratory records showed low iron levels, hypophosphatemia, and hypouricemia, as well as a high alkaline phosphatase. Further blood and urine tests performed at 2 and 3 months before admission in our institution also revealed glycosuria and proteinuria with decreased bicarbonate levels in presence of normal blood glucose levels (Table ). One year before the first presentation at our institute, the patient received oral vitamin D (cholecalciferol) and calcium carbonate substitution as well as one cycle of denosumab treatment, due to the sustained fractures. The antiviral therapy was stopped 3 months before the first presentation in our outpatient clinic and an oral phosphate substitution was then started.
The patient's mother had also sustained a femoral fracture in the past. Two female siblings aged 25 and 35 years, as well as her 3-year-old boy were healthy. The family history also included cases of breast cancer in the family, with patient's mother, aunt, and grandmother being affected. The patient negated having spontaneous fractures or tooth loss during her childhood. Nic