A 54-year-old female with a history of hypertension and tobacco use presented with left-sided weakness and dysarthria for unknown duration. CT scan of the head showed acute right middle cerebral artery (MCA) distribution ischemic infarct. The patient was not a candidate for fibrinolytic therapy due to unknown duration of symptoms and she was transferred to our facility for thrombectomy which was successfully performed. She was transferred to the intensive care unit in stable condition. Shortly after this, she complained of nausea and chest discomfort. 12-lead electrocardiogram demonstrated acute anterior STEMI (Figure ). Bedside echocardiogram showed hypokinesia of the entire apex (Video ).
Emergent CT of the head was performed prior to possible PCI and revealed hemorrhagic conversion in the basal ganglia (Figure ). Because of the new hemorrhagic conversion, we decided not to intervene with close monitoring in the intensive care unit.
Forty-five minutes later, the patient developed polymorphic ventricular tachycardia requiring cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) and electrical cardioversion. Return of spontaneous circulation (ROSC) was achieved and amiodarone was initiated. Given these findings the decision was made to proceed with emergent coronary angiogram with plans for percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA) without the use of antithrombotic or antiplatelet therapy. Coronary angiography via femoral approach revealed thrombotic occlusion of the mid left anterior descending (LAD) artery (Figure ), 80% stenosis in a large obtuse marginal branch (Figure ) and chronic total occlusion of right coronary artery (RCA) (Figure ).
Percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) with plain old balloon angioplasty (POBA) was rapidly performed using 2.0 x 15 mm compliant balloon with resultant TIMI III flow (Figure ).
Two days later the patient was started on aspirin 81 mg daily. She was discharged in stable condition with significant improvements in her neurologic status and minimal residual upper extremity weakness. Once cleared for clopidogrel therapy and procedural anticoagulation she underwent elective coronary angiogram which demonstrated