A 48-year-old woman was admitted to hospital due to claudication at 250 to 300 meters and tremor in both legs. During history-taking, she reported periodic headaches and vertigo complaints lasting years, she described that she had tremors and muscle weakness during her childhood, she had had one lost pregnancy, and her mother does not have diabetes. She has no history of smoking. Family history for cardiovascular disorders was negative and she explained that her mother’s family has a history of diabetes mellitus. She indicated that her father was hypertensive. However, the patient's own blood pressure was normotensive (120/70 mmHg). Assessment of the patient’s physical and ethnic characteristics determined that she was of Turkish origin (European), 52 kg in weight, and 1.63 m in height. Ankle brachial indexes were calculated as 0.72 on the right side and 0.78 on the left side. Biphasic and monophasic waveform patterns were detected bilaterally in distal (trifurcation arteries) lower extremities with Doppler sonography. Complete blood count and biochemical test results were studied to evaluate systemic risk factors. However, whole blood test results were within normal ranges (). Thereafter, computed tomography angiography (CTA) was planned for the lower extremities, as well as for the cerebrovascular system because of tremor and cerebrovascular complaints. Cerebrovascular CTA revealed bilateral carotid occlusion at the level of supraclinoid segments, and opacifications were detected at the distal segments of bilateral anterior cerebellar and middle cerebellar arteries (). Additionally, abundant collateral formations (puff of smoke sign) were detected in the cerebral parenchyma and basal ganglia (). Lower extremity CTA revealed bilateral segmental occlusions of both popliteal arteries (). The patient was diagnosed with moyamoya disease, and anticoagulant and antiaggregant treatment was started at a dose of 2×1 6000 IU enoxaparin sodium for the first ten days and 300 mg/daily acetylsalicylic acid. Additionally, subsequent 60 mg daily prednisolone treatment was started because of insufficient exclusion