A 39-year-old male patient was brought to the emergency department with severe nausea and vomiting after intentional ingestion of two spoonsful of cyanide salt which had been obtained from a friend in the jewelry industry. The patient was admitted to our center approximately 7 h after ingestion of the substance. Immediately after the ingestion of the powder, gastric irrigation and activated charcoal administration were undertaken in a primary health care facility, and the patient was then referred to our center due to the development of refractory nausea and severe vomiting.
Upon arrival, the patient had an oral temperature of 37.2°C, pulse rate of 110 beats per minute, respiratory rate of 18 breaths per minute, blood pressure recording of 110/70, and a Glasgow Coma Scale (GCS) score of 15/15. Pulse oximetry showed 97% oxygen saturation with a regular pulse. Peripheral perfusion was assessed using capillary refill time and was normal. Physical examination other than an evident tachycardia was otherwise normal. The patient reported tobacco use but no history of alcohol abuse or addiction to illicit drugs.
After admission to the emergency department, primary blood work revealed leukocytosis and metabolic acidosis (laboratory data are summarized in Table ). An electrocardiogram (ECG) of the patient showed normal sinus rhythm and tachycardia.
An intravenous line was obtained and hydration coupled with other supportive measures was started. After 2 h, the patient's blood pressure dropped to 67/35 and peripheral perfusion decreased. Based on the history obtained from the patient, and the metabolic acidosis along with hypotension, cyanide poisoning was highly suspected. Due to the unavailability of cyanide antidote kits at our center, management consisted of norepinephrine 10-20 micrograms per minute (mcg/min) for blood pressure support, sodium bicarbonate for metabolic acidosis, and two sessions of plasmapheresis via a right femoral access using a hemodialysis set up with the appropriate filter. The duration of each plasmapheresis session was 3 h. In the first session, 3 L of plasma