VG is a seventy-two year-old male with a good performance status, with a moderate smoking habit, no professional or familiar risk of bladder malignancy or autoimmunity and hypertension in medical treatment, who was diagnosed with a locally advanced bladder cancer for which he underwent radical cystectomy and locoregional lymphadenectomy on October 2018. Histological examination detected an undifferentiated urothelial carcinoma infiltrating the muscularis mucosae with no nodal involvement. A pre-operatory radiological study excluded the presence of disseminated disease. He was therefore staged as T3N0Mo and no adjuvant chemotherapy was recommended. On February 2019 he become symptomatic with a rise in sacral and pelvic pain associated with weight loss and ankle swelling. A CT/PET scan detected the presence of soft tissue relapse within the left ileo-psoas muscle as well as bone (costs, pelvis, ischiopubic bones) and iliac, lombo-aortic and inguinal node metastasis. This patient was therefore addressed to palliative chemotherapy with cisplatin and gemcitabine that was ineffective in controlling the disease and was suspended just after three cycles upon instrumental demonstration of disease progression (from 20 March to 10 May 2019). Subsequently, he received radiation therapy (8Gy) and then metronomic chemotherapy with oral vinorelbine (20 mg three times a week) from 1 September to 10 December 2019, before new disease progression was demonstrated (A). He therefore was addressed to immunotherapy, receiving pembrolizumab at a dose of 200 mg every three weeks, starting on 17 December 2019. He showed a fast benefit in terms of quality of life and pain decrease and swelling after the first administration. The treatment was well tolerated and he could receive three treatment cycles with no alterations in blood tests or symptoms suggestive for irAEs, with the exception of a mild arthromyalgia (g1), stiffness and moderate asthenia. A few days after the third treatment course he developed left eyelid ptosis, which progressively worsened until becoming bilateral within a few days. In parallel, diplopia with limitation of