A 69-year-old Caucasian male who was a former alcoholic and former smoker presented to the emergency department with a chief concern of right lower back pain radiating down the right thigh to the level of the knee for three weeks. There was no history of trauma or recent illness. However, the patient had received a routine dental cleaning 17 days prior to the onset of symptoms. Vital signs at index were remarkable for tachycardia and hypertension. Physical exam revealed diffuse swelling of the right thigh, pitting edema of the extremity, and some erythema and warmth over the medial thigh. No crepitus was noted. Range of motion was normal at the right hip and knee.
Plain radiographs of the right femur were unremarkable. Upon hospital admission, laboratory studies revealed leukocytosis, elevated alkaline phosphatase, elevated liver transaminases, low albumin, elevated C-reactive protein, and elevated erythrocyte sedimentation rate. Two blood cultures were obtained, and intravenous (IV) vancomycin was begun empirically.
A contrast enhanced magnetic resonance image (MRI) of the right thigh demonstrated a large, irregular, peripherally enhancing fluid collection centered within the vastus intermedius muscle in the mid to distal right thigh. The fluid collection wrapped around the anteromedial cortex of the femur with associated signal change within the femur (). IV cefepime and clindamycin were started, and vancomycin was continued. Interventional radiology successfully placed an image guided percutaneous drainage catheter into the abscess cavity. Cultured abscess fluid resulted negative, but blood cultures obtained at admission grew S. anginosus. The patient was discharged with a peripherally inserted central catheter for daily outpatient administration of 2 g IV ceftriaxone.
Three months after discharge, the patient returned with worsening symptoms and inability to bear weight on the right leg. Radiographs revealed a pathologic fracture of the right mid-shaft femur through the site of prior diaphyseal osteomyelitis (). He was subsequently transferred to a tertiary university affiliated care center for further multi discipline management. An