A 74-year-old male with super obesity (BMI of 59.9) presented to an outside facility with right upper quadrant pain that began two days prior. He had the following comorbidities: type II diabetes mellitus, coronary artery disease, congestive heart failure with ejection fraction of 40%, atrial fibrillation on long-term dual anticoagulation, sick sinus syndrome requiring implanted pacemaker, asthma, pulmonary hypertension, wheelchair dependence, and a 20 pack-year smoking history. Initial evaluation revealed leukocytosis and computed tomography scan findings of a distended gallbladder with inflammatory changes concerning for acute cholecystitis. Intravenous antibiotics were started, and the patient was transferred to our facility for further surgical evaluation and intervention.
A Hepatobiliary Iminodiacetic Acid (HIDA) scan was performed which revealed acute acalculous cholecystitis (). A percutaneous cholecystostomy tube (PCT) was placed by interventional radiology. The patient was discharged to home with planned interval cholangiograms and PCT checks. Subsequently, the patient had complications with his PCT including misplacement, occlusion, and pain. Three months after discharge, a cholangiogram demonstrated persistent cystic duct obstruction. The patient expressed interest in PCT removal and a cholecystectomy.
Preoperative evaluation by pulmonology revealed undiagnosed obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) and determined that the patient had an intermediate increased risk of perioperative complications. Evaluation by cardiology found that the patient had a moderate increased risk for cardiac complications with a laparoscopic cholecystectomy and a moderate to high risk with a laparotomy. After six weeks of appropriate therapy for OSA, the patient underwent a robotic assisted laparoscopic cholecystectomy.
Four robotic ports and two laparoscopic ports were placed (). Dissection began with limited workspace due to patient body habitus and was further restricted by significant scarring surrounding the gallbladder. This workspace challenge was ameliorated after suspending the falciform ligament with a transfascial suture. Dissection exposed the cystic duct and cystic artery. Near infrared fluorescence cholangiography (NIRF-C) with injection of indocyanine green dye was performed to confirm the