A 47-year-old obese woman, who had a history of smoking, presented with untreated hypertension and diabetes mellitus. She was found to have developed acute type-B aortic dissection (type IIIb) consisting of entry at the descending aorta and re-entry of the bilateral common carotid arteries, left renal artery, and left common iliac artery, causing cerebral infarction that further resulted in left hemiplegia. At that time, she had rehabilitation therapy. There was no occlusion of the carotid arteries, even with false lumen patency; thus, no additional intervention was required. She was referred to our hospital and underwent follow-up computed tomography (CT) once a year until the diameter of the descending aorta was observed to have enlarged to 50 mm; thereafter, her visits for follow-up CT were shortened to every 6 months. These CT results, however, now revealed a gradual increase in the diameter of the descending aorta to more than 60 mm with a patent false lumen. Although we have strongly recommended treatment for the dissecting aortic aneurysm, she declined. At 69 years of age, the diameter of the dissecting aortic aneurysm had increased to more than 70 mm, presenting a high probability of aneurysmal rupture, and was already compressing the left atrium. We again explained the necessity of treatment by surgical or endovascular intervention (). Finally, she opted for endovascular intervention of the chronic type-B aortic dissection and dissecting aortic aneurysm. We then planned to perform endovascular interventions with occlusion of the entry of the descending aorta and the distal false lumen. At that time, we did not consider occlusion of the re-entry in the carotid artery because of the risk of cerebral arterial emboli. CT angiography revealed sufficient visceral arterial connection between the celiac artery and the superior mesenteric artery, allowing occlusion of the celiac artery. The arteria radicularis magna (Adamkiewicz artery) received its blood supply from the collateral arterial network, including the intercostal artery, which had been occluded via endovascular intervention. Therefore, if she