A 49-year-old man presented with asymmetrical edema of the left lower limb and pain in the ipsilateral thigh and aqueous diarrhea for 3 days prior to hospital admission (). Venous ultrasonography with Doppler of the lower limbs confirmed DVT in the left femoropopliteal venous segment. Full angiotomography of the abdomen was then conducted to assess the extent of iliocaval thrombosis. This examination detected an incidental finding of a posterior saccular aneurysm of the abdominal aorta, close to the L3 vertebral body, predominantly on the left and with eccentric thrombi. The largest diameter was 6.4 cm and the neck measured 1.7 cm (). There was also thrombosis of the entire left common and external iliac veins. The patient reported a history of recurrent oral and genital ulcers and arthritis for the pervious 8 years, in addition to acneiform eruptions on his back and face (). He had no history of diabetes mellitus or systemic arterial hypertension and denied consumption of alcohol, tobacco, or other drugs. His erythrocyte sedimentation rate was 64 mm/h, C-reactive protein was 29 mg/L, and D-dimer was 2,558 ng/mL. His total and differential white blood cell counts were normal. Angiotomography of the thorax was conducted and ruled out thoracic aneurysmal involvement and pulmonary embolism.
In view of the clinical status described above, the suspected diagnosis was ABD according to the criteria established by the International Study Group for Behçet's Disease () and care was managed in conjunction with the rheumatology team. Initially, the patient was started on treatment with corticosteroids for ABD and enoxaparin 1 mg/kg twice a day for the acute DVT. On his third day in hospital, he developed abdominal and lumbar pain on the left, with no drop in hemoglobin levels and hemodynamic stability maintained. Another angiotomography examination was conducted, showing that the aneurysm had expanded to 7.8 cm with posterior infiltration, close to the vertebrae. The decision was taken to withdraw enoxaparin and