A 49-year-old Caucasian woman, an active smoker (15 packs/year) with an otherwise silent past medical history, presented with a dry cough that worsened in the supine position. While the cough resolved with proton-pump inhibitor (PPI) therapy, suggesting a gastrointestinal nature of the symptom, the patient also underwent a routine chest radiograph. The imaging showed a nodule with a diameter of 3.5 cm in the right lower lobe. Thus, a chest CT scan was performed, which confirmed the presence of a solid lesion with well-defined margins, mild contrast enhancement, and a diameter of 34 × 26 mm in the anterior basal segment of the inferior right pulmonary lobe. The exam also revealed an enlarged axillary lymph node that was later confirmed to be inflammatory in nature. To further characterize the lesion, a PET-CT scan with an injection of 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) was done; the images showed mild uptake at the level of the nodule in the right lower lobe (with a maximum SUV of 2.8) (, ), suggesting a possibly benign or locally invasive biological behavior. Fine-needle biopsy for typing of the lesion was attempted but ultimately not performed due to poor compliance of the patient during the CT-guided procedure. Therefore, wedge resection of the right inferior lobe and nodal sampling were performed with video-assisted thoracoscopic surgery. A frozen section procedure was performed during the operation, which gave unconclusive results. Hence, it was decided not to perform a completion lobectomy but to wait for the final histological results. The tissue specimen analyzed at histology showed richly vascularized intrapulmonary solid proliferation () that comprised two types of cells: epitheliomorphic and spindle-shaped cells. The former type of cells had large eosinophilic cytoplasm and moderately atypical nuclei (nucleolates) partially dispersed in a loose stroma crossed by ill-defined septa (); the latter cells, also called “sub-tentacular cells,” were interposed with moderate infiltrate of lympho-plasma cells