A 24-year-old woman who immigrated from Liberia to the USA approximately one year ago presented our outpatient clinic with a complaint of a left-sided facial swelling for the past three years. She initially noticed this left lower jaw swelling approximately three years ago but left it untreated due to the chronic nature of the swelling and her relatively asymptomatic course. However, subsequently, she noticed an interval increase in the size of the swelling associated with pain. This was aggravated by palpation of the swelling, lying on her left side and swallowing. There was no associated fever, drainage from the swelling, increased salivary production, anorexia, weight loss, dyspnea, dysphagia, hoarseness, ophthalmoplegia, hearing loss, gait disturbance, or known tuberculosis exposure. She did not endorse smoking, alcohol consumption or use illicit drugs. There was no personal or family history of cancers. Additionally, she did not have any known occupational or environmental exposures. This was on the background of having no known medical history of any chronic illness.
The patient was well developed with vital signs within normal limits. On physical examination, there was a 3 x 3 cm, mildly tender, non-mobile, round, firm, non-compressible and non-reducible swelling at the angle of mandible abutting the lobule of the left ear (Figure ). No cervical, supraclavicular or axillary lymphadenopathy was appreciated and there were no overlying skin changes. There was no associated facial asymmetry or loss of sensation. On examination of the oral cavity, the swelling was not palpable internally. Compression of the left facial mass did not elicit secretions from the opening of Stensen’s duct.
Due to the rapid increase in size and a concern for possible malignancy, the patient was sent for a CT scan of soft tissue of neck with contrast that confirmed a solid nodule in the superficial portion left parotid gland measuring 3.56 x 2.67 cm that appeared to be homogeneous and had a well