A 33-yr-old man presented with decreased vision of the right eye referred to Amiralmomenin Hospital, Rasht, Iran in November 2018. His symptoms were not accompanied by any other ocular symptoms. The patient had no relevant family history or prior ophthalmological problems or head trauma/injury. He had no significant medical history, including diabetes mellitus and hypertension, and no history of smoking. He had been treated with clomiphene citrate 100 mg for 2 wk for infertility issues. The patient presented with a sudden decrease of visual acuity in the right eye on the 14 day of taking the treatment and subsequently developed complete loss of inferior visual field in a few days. He had no history of other medicine or herbal intake.
At initial presentation, his best-corrected visual acuity was 6/20 in the right and 20/20 in the left eyes, with a right relative afferent pupillary defect and decreased red color saturation. The intraocular pressure was 13 and 11 mmHg in the right and left eyes, respectively. Extraocular movements were normal in both eyes. The slit-lamp examination of the anterior segment and anterior vitreous were unremarkable in both eyes. The fundus copy of the right eye revealed a swelling of the optic nerve head with blurred margin, especially in the superior pole pallor, and venous congestion was noted. The macula seemed to be normal. Fundus copy of the left eye showed a small cup–disc ratio of 0.2 without any other pathological findings (Figure 1). Based on these findings, immediate neurologic consultation was performed and brain and orbital MRI and computer tomography were obtained, which showed no pathologic findings. Cardiologic examinations including carotid ultrasound and blood pressure monitoring were also unremarkable. Further serologic studies for infection and hypercoagulable states (complete blood count, thyroid hormone levels, erythrocyte sedimentation rate, C-reactive protein, angiotensin-converting enzyme, toxoplasmosis antibodies, antithrombin III, factor V Leiden, protein C, protein S, anti-