We discuss a 59-year-old female who presented for planned PICC insertion for chemotherapy administration. Her medical history consisted of sigmoid adenocarcinoma with a Hartmann’s procedure the month before and subsequently commencing chemotherapy a week before. She was a non-smoker and had no familial history of coagulation disorders.
The PICC line was inserted into the right arm under ultrasound guidance, without any immediate concerns noted during the procedure. An X-ray revealed the PICC tip to be in a satisfactory position, but potentially a little too deep (). There were no symptoms of chest discomfort or palpitations.
Approximately an hour later, she developed symptoms of pain and weakness to her left arm (the opposite side). Her arm was clinically assessed as cool to touch with a delayed capillary refill with pulses absent. A computed tomography angiogram (CTA) of her left arm was arranged which revealed an abrupt stop in the left axillary artery ( and ) with reconstitution of the vessels in the antecubital fossa. She was taken to theatre for a brachial embolectomy to re-establish blood flow to her acutely ischaemic arm.
Brachial access was obtained over the antecubital fossa, the brachial artery was controlled and incised. Proximal embolectomy with balloon catheter retrieved a long segment of thrombus, with resulting good inflow and back bleeding. Post-operatively she was commenced on therapeutic low molecular weight heparin (LMWH).
She was subsequently worked up for a cause for this limb threatening pathology. Echocardiogram revealed unremarkable cardiac valves without evidence of an embolic source. A bubble study was also performed which showed no evidence of right to left shunt or patent foramen ovale. Histology confirmed recent blood clot without organization. At follow up she had a good radial pulse and her LMWH was switched to rivaroxaban.
PICC lines are generally considered safe, with delayed complications including occlusion, accidental withdrawal, infection and thrombotic complications []. Immediate