A 44-year-old Asian male patient gradually developed a ventral mass on the penis 7 years before presentation. Initially, the lesion was ~1 cm in diameter and occasionally accompanied by paresthesias and bleeding after friction. He had normal urination and did not visit the hospital at first. When an ulcer developed, he applied erythromycin ointment. Sometimes, the focal ulceration
healed, but the condition often recurred. The scope of the lesion gradually increased over the period of 7 years. Finally, he came to the dermatology department of our hospital and underwent penile lesion tissue biopsy. The pathological report showed that he had penile intraepithelial neoplasia. Considering the large range of lesions, he came to the urological ward for hospitalization and surgical treatment. The patient had no clear history of exposure to chemical properties such as arsenic. His HIV antibody test was negative. He did not have a history of smoking or alcoholism. The lesion was located on the ventral side of the penis and the total area was ~2.2 cm ×2.0 cm (). The surface of the penile lesion was pale red with a gray edge. It had an irregular shape and clear boundaries, and the lesion slightly protruded out of the surface of the skin. There was no obvious exudate on the ulceration, and there was no obvious redness or swelling of the surrounding skin.
After continuous epidural anesthesia, a skin incision line was marked at a 1.0 cm margin from the edge of the lesion of the penis of the patient. The scrotal flap range that needed to be isolated was also set before resectioning of the lesion. We cut the skin of the lesion vertically along the designed incision margin line, deep to the deep fascia layer, and completely resected the lesion tissue on the surface of the deep fascia (). After careful hemostasis by bipolar coagulation, we designed a 5.0 cm ×3.0 cm scrotal flap based on the resected wound area and dissociated it on the surface of the deep fascia. With a formed pedicled