A 47-year-old man with no history of any autoimmune diseases and in good health became sick together with his family on the 12th of November with mild symptoms of a flu-like disease: tiredness, fever, cough, and sore throat. Oropharyngeal swab for SARS-CoV-2 tested positive on the 17th of November. The patient was isolated at home and did not need hospitalization. Three weeks later his fever, cough, and sore throat had disappeared. However, he felt extremely tired and started to experience abdominal discomfort and redness of the skin. On the 1st of January he sought emergency care due to abdominal pain and vomiting, cutaneous generalized rash with diffuse erythema and burning skin sensation. He also had swelling of the eyelids and conjunctivitis. No abnormalities were detected on auscultation of the lungs and heart, and no lymphadenopathy or hepatosplenomegaly were found. The patient had no history of drug abuse; he was not taking any medication and did not smoke. ESR and CRP were normal as well as the complete blood count and serum creatinine. Chest radiography and oxygen saturation were normal, as well EKG, blood pressure, and heart rate. Patient was not hospitalized, and he returned home and started treatment with a proton pump inhibitor against acid reflux as well as antibiotic ointment against what we believed to be conjunctivitis and blepharitis. Patient only improved marginally, and two weeks later he sought care again. The cutaneous generalized rash had disappeared but was replaced by a heliotrope rash. He still had periorbital edema and conjunctivitis, burning sensation in the skin, above all in the fingertips and around the mouth. Patient complained of Raynaud’s phenomenon, swollen fingers and pain at the fingertip of the middle finger. He experienced a certain muscular discomfort and muscular weakness in the chest. Vomiting and abdominal pain had disappeared but the patient experienced dysphagia. At the physical examination, puffy fingers and a depressed area