A 49-year old perimenopausal Caucasian woman, gravida 3 para 3, was referred to our institution for a suspicious adnexal lesion. She complained of an intermittent pelvic pain over the preceding 3 months accompanied by weight loss. No fever was reported, neither bloody nor purulent vaginal discharge. Physical examination showed a mild tenderness at the lower quadrants without a palpable adnexal mass. Gynecological exam did not find signs of inflammation in the vaginal or cervical mucosa. No cervical motion tenderness was found. Patient’s medical history included the insertion of a copper IUD 20 years ago. The IUD has not been changed until its removal 1 month prior to the admission. No other relevant medical or surgical history was found besides smoking. Laboratory findings showed an increased C-reactive protein level (203 mg/l), leukocytosis (13,000/mm3) and microcytic anemia (hemoglobin level: 9.2 g/dl). The tumor markers were normal except the CA-125 which reached 209 mIU/l. Pelvic and abdominal computed tomography (CT) and MRI were performed and revealed bilateral ovarian multiloculated cystic lesions with multiple anterior pelvic implants in the utero-vesical space evoking peritoneal carcinomatosis. The largest implant above the bladder dome measured 2 cm, while the ovarian lesions reached 4 cm in diameter (). Pelvic lymphadenopathies were also seen on the CT scan.
The case was discussed in a multidisciplinary meeting at our institution and an exploratory laparoscopy with biopsies was recommended. The procedure showed severe adhesions in the lower abdomen with frozen pelvis and ascites. Due to the fear of spreading eventual malignant cells, the pelvic magma was not dissected or ruptured laparoscopically. In order to rule out malignancy, peritoneal biopsies were taken and ascites fluid was collected for cytological examination. Histological examination demonstrated that the peritoneal nodules were fibrosing and inflammatory. No malignant features were found. The patient was; therefore, discharged empirically on ciprofloxacin. Thus, the patient described a persistent pelvic pain