A 39-year-old woman presented with epigastric pain, intermittent nausea, frequent vomiting, and loss of appetite over the last seven days. She denied weight loss. She could pass gas but had not passed stool over the last four days. She was able to tolerate a full meal the night before presenting to the hospital, but nausea and vomiting had resumed within several hours.
Her medical history was significant only for laparoscopic oophorectomy for a left ovarian cyst almost 20 years prior. She was taking no medications, herbal remedies, or nutritional supplements. She admitted to chronic alcohol abuse with frequent visits to the emergency department due to alcohol intoxication, but had never smoked cigarettes. She denied any recent sexual contact, overseas travel, raw food ingestion, or sick contacts.
Upon presentation, the patient appeared to be in moderate distress. Her respiratory rate was 24 breaths per minute, but vital signs were otherwise stable. She complained of discomfort on palpation of the epigastric region. The upper abdomen was soft but mildly distended. No mass was palpated. Small scars from previous laparoscopy were noted.
Laboratory results were only remarkable for a mildly elevated C-reactive protein of 0.44 mg/dL. Esophagogastroduodenoscopy (EGD) performed 20 hours after the patient's last meal revealed a mildly distended stomach with significant food residue in the esophagus and stomach (). The patient vomited copious food residue during the procedure, precluding a thorough examination for fear of aspiration. No gross abnormalities were found up to the third part of the duodenum. Food residue and intraluminal air were suctioned to the extent possible at the end of the examination.
Despite the patient's ability to pass gas, an emergency computed tomography (CT) scan was conducted to rule out small bowel obstruction. CT without contract was largely unremarkable, with no visible signs of tumor or bowel obstruction (). However, CT with contrast taken several minutes later revealed