Ms. A, a 69-years-old Caucasian female with a history of generalized anxiety disorder and major depressive disorder (MDD) that was being managed with cariprazine by her previous provider presented with extreme restlessness, fidgeting, and pacing around the room for three weeks duration. Two weeks prior to the presentation, her dose of cariprazine was increased from 1.5 mg to 3 mg as the lower dose was not effective in treating depression. She had not responded to a previously prescribed selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI), sertraline, which was the reason why she was prescribed cariprazine by her previous psychiatrist. Her depressive symptoms however worsened despite the increased dose of her medication. Around the same time, she experienced other biopsychosocial issues that likely contributed to her depressive symptoms. She was diagnosed with COVID-19, the symptoms of which she thought could be contributing to her depressive symptoms. She also complained that she had been distant from her relatives and none of them had visited her in the preceding months, likely due, in part, to the social distancing requirements of the COVID-19 pandemic. As the pandemic raged, she described herself as a "nervous wreck" and experienced multiple panic attacks. There was no history of mania or hypomania or suicidal thoughts. She was a current cigarette smoker but was not using any other substance.
On an initial mental state examination, she was oriented to time, place, and person, and her speech was fluent. She had congruent affect but her mood was depressed. Blood work did not reveal any significant abnormality. She was diagnosed with akathisia secondary to cariprazine use while the suspected offending drug was discontinued and hydroxyzine was initiated for her panic attacks. The discussion was made to observe her for a few weeks for resolution of her symptoms following discontinuation of cariprazine. Three weeks later, she complained of worsening symptoms of depression although