A 65-year-old male with a long history of alcohol abuse and cirrhosis presented to the emergency department for abdominal pain described as constant and nagging pain for the last couple of weeks. He had difficulty locating the source of his pain but pointed to his umbilical hernia which had been diagnosed earlier that week.
His past medical history was notable for alcohol dependence, cirrhosis with a Model for End-Stage Liver Disease (MELD) score of 27, chronic pain disorder with opioid dependence, gastroesophageal reflux disease, and hypertension. He also had a lengthy history of multiple emergency department visits and admissions in the preceding years related to alcohol abuse and decompensated cirrhosis. A few months before this admission, he presented with abdominal pain and ascites and was found to have E. coli bacteremia from spontaneous bacterial peritonitis (SBP). This was successfully treated with ceftriaxone and metronidazole and discharge home on oral antibiotics for 14 days. For the last 40 years, he drank about a pint of vodka daily, although he reported abstinence since his SBP admission a few months ago. He has a history of marijuana use and a 40-year exposure to second-hand tobacco smoke.
In the Emergency Department (ED), he was initially afebrile with a pulse of 91 beats per minute, a blood pressure of 108/64, and 100% oxygen saturation on room air. On physical exam, he was visibly jaundiced and ill-appearing. His abdominal exam demonstrated a soft, 4 × 4 cm umbilical hernia which was minimally tender to palpation and easily reducible, as well as diffuse abdominal tenderness. The remainder of his exam was unremarkable, with normal cardiorespiratory, neurologic, and jaundiced skin findings. Initial lab tests are shown in .
An initial differential diagnosis included intra-abdominal infection, hepatobiliary disease, abdominal hernia, and bowel obstruction. Intra-abdominal infection was deemed likely with his diffuse abdominal pain resembling his prior admission for SBP, elevated white blood cells, and cirrhosis history