A 79-year-old male was admitted to the hospital unit with the chief complaint of worsening cough and abdominal pain. He was seen in the emergency room three days before the admission with the chief complaint of wheezing and non-productive cough where he was diagnosed with bronchitis and sent home with levofloxacin 500 mg by mouth daily for seven days and albuterol hydrofluoroalkane (HFA) inhaler as needed. The patient had a significant past medical history of dementia, seizures, cerebral vascular accident, pulmonary fibrosis, and chronic kidney disease with a creatinine clearance (CrCL) of 36 mL/min on day 1 of their hospital admission. The patient’s family reports no tobacco and alcohol use. The patient returns to the emergency room due to a lack of symptomatic improvement as well as a new complaint of abdominal pain, fever, and altered mental status per family members. Upon admission, the patient appeared jaundiced with right upper quadrant pain, and all hepatic enzymes were elevated with total bilirubin three times more than the ULN, alkaline phosphatase two times more than the ULN, AST 14 times more than the ULN, and ALT six times more than the ULN (Table ).
An ultrasound of the abdomen was performed and showed a distended gallbladder with no gallstones and a common bile duct diameter of 5 mm. Upon admission, the patient presented with acute chronic kidney injury, with slightly elevated blood urea nitrogen (BUN), and mild tachycardia of 106 beats per minute (all other vitals normal). Of note, medications before admission that may have potentially led to the abnormalities in the hepatic laboratory work are levofloxacin and rosuvastatin (Table ). The patient was diagnosed with drug-induced cholestatic hepatitis due to levofloxacin after performing a hepatobiliary iminodiacetic acid (HIDA) scan and autoimmune hepatitis panel to rule out other causes. All hepatic enzymes peaked between day 8 and day 9 of hospital stay and improved thereafter in the remainder of the hospital admission. The patient