In the present consanguineous Chinese family, the proband was a 42-year-old man who presented with Charcot neuroarthropathy. He was the fourth child of parents with normal pregnancy and childbirth (). Although his older brother had similar symptoms, we were unable to collect the data because he died from a severe accident in the previous year. The proband had no history of diabetes mellitus, hypertension, and syphilis, which are common risk factors for Charcot neuroarthropathy. However, he reported that he had been unable to respond to pain since birth. When he was 1 year old, he often bit his fingers without any sensation of pain; later, his parents noticed that he was incapable of experiencing pain. When he was 10 years old, he repeatedly suffered painless fractures and got burned unknowingly. When he started smoking, he often burned his fingers with lit cigarettes but did not experience pain (). Furthermore, he did not experience pain due to extreme heat or cold, although he could distinguish between hot and cold sensations. However, the proband had a complete sense of smell as he could distinguish smells of water, alcohol, or white vinegar. In his 30 s, he developed multiple joint swelling, instability, and deformities caused by repetitive microtrauma and painless fractures (). Bone and joint destruction induced a severe negative impact on the quality of his life.
Detailed physical examination revealed swelling in the right knee, left ankle, and right elbow joint; reduced right knee flexion; valgus deformity; and left ankle varus. Skin ulcers were noted on the right knee and on the lateral side of the left ankle (). A neurological examination indicated normal cognitive function (). In addition, radiography of the right knee joint showed narrowing of the right knee joint space, blurring of the joint surface, bone destruction, and uneven density (). Three-dimensional CT scan of the left foot demonstrated that the structures of the left ankle joint, left tarsometatarsal