A 39-year-old Caucasian male with a prior history of hemorrhoidectomies, dyslipidemia, and depression presented with severe nausea, vomiting, and purplish discoloration of bilateral feet to our rural community hospital. He stated that nausea and vomiting had started about 48 hours previously. There have been no accompanying diarrhea or fever symptoms. Twenty-four hours prior to presentation, the patient noticed purplish discoloration of bilateral feet, which was slowly worsening. Initially, he had foot pain with an intensity of four on a ten-point scale, which was nonradiating and without any identifiable precipitating, aggravating, or alleviating factors. However, this was subsequently replaced with numbness and swelling. He recalled episodic chest pain and shortness of breath for the last two months, for which he had never sought treatment. These were accompanied by weakness and fatigue, which had become a fairly consistent symptom. He denied any chest pain or dyspnea at the time of presentation. The patient stated that both his father and grandfather had been diagnosed with homocystinuria. Even though they had died earlier in life, at around 30 years of age, he had never been tested for homocystinuria. He smoked about half a pack a day and had a history of alcoholism but had been sober for the last 10 years. Scrutiny of prior visits showed the primary complaint to be musculoskeletal pain from the cervical spine early on and right knee secondary to osteoarthritis more recently. Recently, he had been diagnosed with dyslipidemia, which was being treated with lifestyle modifications. He was taking olanzapine (10 mg daily) and escitalopram (20 mg daily) for depression.
Physical examination was significant for tachycardia and normal blood pressure with progressively declining mean arterial pressures ranging between 70 and 80 mmHg but normal body temperature and oxygen saturation at room air. He did have a flat affect, and his mucous membranes appeared dry. The respiratory examination was significant for mild right-sided basal crepitations, and