A 33-year-old female who was previously healthy presented with swelling and pain over the right side of the neck that had been present for three weeks. The swelling was slowly increasing in size and associated with progressive right arm weakness. She also complained that the pain radiated to the right axilla as well as to the shoulder region. There was no history of fever or night sweats, but she reported losing about 5 kg in weight in the three months prior. She had no cough, and her clinical history was otherwise unremarkable. She had been a chronic smoker for the past 15 years with otherwise no relevant past medical or surgical history. Also, she was not taking any medications prior to the illness. On clinical examination, there was an area of diffuse swelling over the left side of the neck with marked engorgement of the superficial veins and was tender on palpation. The swelling also involved the upper part of the right shoulder (). Other than that, the clinical examination was normal. Endoscopic examination of the nasal cavity and larynx was unremarkable. Normal full blood count with a normal erythrocyte sedimentation rate of 4 mm/h and an elevated C-reactive protein of 30 units (normal range is 0–10 units) were found after the initial laboratory investigations. Thrombophilia screening, coagulation profile, urea and electrolytes, thyroid function tests as well as liver function tests were normal. She was referred for an ultrasound examination of the neck, which showed right cervical lymphadenopathy with right IJV and distal right subclavian vein thrombosis. The ultrasound revealed multiple enlarged right cervical lymph nodes involving the II, III, and IV levels. Ultrasound-guided core biopsy of the cervical lymphadenopathy was performed. She initially received intravenous antibiotics and was anticoagulated with low-molecular-weight heparin followed by warfarin. Consequently, she was subjected to computed tomography (CT) of the neck, chest, abdomen, and pelvis. Extensive right IJV thrombosis extending to the right subclavian, right brachiocephalic vein and into the