An 80-year-old female presented with a complaint of a nonhealing lesion in the right posterior region of the lower jaw for two months. The lesion was gradually increasing in size associated with moderate, intermediate-type pain with purulent discharge. She had a habit of chewing tobacco with slaked lime for 60 years, 6-7 times per day which she kept for 10-20 minutes at variable sites in the vestibular region and spit. She also had a habit of smoking tobacco for 50 years, 5-6 cigarettes per day, and had no other significant medical history.
On extraoral examination, there was a localized swelling around the body of the mandible on the right side with a single, firm, mobile, and tender lymph node approximately measuring 1 × 1.5 cm2 in maximum dimension palpable in the submandibular region. Intraoral examination revealed a single, soft, erythematous swelling with ulceration extending from 44 to 48 involving the vestibule, buccal mucosa, edentulous alveolar ridge, and lingual mucosa extending towards the floor of the mouth, measuring approximately 2.5 × 2.5 cm2 in maximum dimension. The surface of the lesion shows localized thick purulent discharge and is tender on palpation with peripheral induration. There was a root stump associated with 42-44 and carious exposure on 33-41 with edematous gingiva (). The panoramic radiograph revealed a homogenous radiolucent lytic lesion involving the body and angle of the mandible on the right side with irregular cortical margin in the body area extending from 44 to 46.
The clinical diagnosis of oral carcinoma was made, and an incisional biopsy was suggested. A single, soft tissue measuring 13 × 7 × 5 mm in maximum dimension, creamish white in color, and firm in consistency was obtained and fixed in 10% neutral buffered formalin. The fixed tissue was processed, embedded, and sectioned with the soft tissue microtome at a thickness of 3 μm and stained with routine hematoxylin and eosin stain. The histopathological section revealed epithelial