This report involves a 49-year-old Caucasian male with no significant past medical history who presented to the emergency department (ED) complaining of pain and coldness in the right foot with some tingling for the past few hours. The pain was described as vague and had a progressive onset. The patient has a history of smoking one pack per day for the last 30 years, and he works as a general contractor. At the time of presentation, the patient was able to move his toes and foot without much difficulty. The right foot examination revealed diminished dorsalis pedis pulse, mild sensory loss, and no muscle weakness. The right foot was cold and displayed pallor with no distinct demarcation. The patient had a CTA done, which revealed an acute occlusion involving the proximal anterior tibial artery and the tibioperoneal trunk with reconstitution distally. Given the poor reconstitution, no evidence of atherosclerotic disease in either extremity and no evidence of vasculitis the occlusions were likely acute and embolic in etiology. The patient was admitted to the intensive care unit (ICU), a tissue plasminogen activator (TPA) was infused directly into the affected peripheral vessel, and a heparin drip was started.
The patient did not have any history of cardiac arrhythmias or myocardial infarction. An echocardiogram revealed a patent foramen ovale which was only evident by a bubble study. Due to the foramen ovale not being large enough to explain the current arterial occlusion, a transesophageal echocardiogram and a closure device were not recommended. Interventional radiology was consulted, and the patient underwent four attempts of thrombolysis, resulting in improved clot burden by the end of each procedure. However, the patient continued to have repeated episodes of thrombosis. Angioplasty of the anterior tibial and posterior tibial arteries was also performed. Unfortunately, recanalization of these vessels was unsuccessful. Despite four days of TPA thrombolysis therapy and multiple attempts at angioplasty and thrombectomy of all three tibial vessels, they remained occluded. The patient's right lower extremity angiogram demonstrated persistent occlusion