A 50-year-old male with a past medical history of nephrolithiasis and gout and a history of significant cigarette smoking presented to his family medicine physician with six months of progressively worsening right foot pain with associated redness and swelling (Figure ). The patient was also experiencing burning, numbness, and tingling in his right lower extremity. After ruling out more benign causes, his family physician directed him to the local hospital for a workup of more insidious etiologies.
In the emergency department, the patient had an ankle-brachial index of 1.13 which was falsely elevated secondary to hardening of the arteries at the ankle. Moreover, a lower extremity arterial study revealed a digit pressure of 0 mmHg, suggesting critical pedal digit occlusive disease. The patient underwent a right lower extremity angiogram that showed significant chronic occlusion of the anterior tibial artery and attempts to recanalize were unsuccessful (Video ). Vessels below the distal third of the leg were not present with the exception of a few collaterals to the foot. Since there was no flow to the foot and the occlusion was present for at least six months, vascular surgery concluded that this patient would not be amenable to endovascular nor open surgical interventions.
Following an unsuccessful revascularization, therapy shifted to hyperbaric oxygen and medical management with aspirin, atorvastatin, cilostazol, and gabapentin. The patient was also counseled about the consequences of smoking and received nicotine patches to assist with cessation. Other cardiovascular risk factors were not present. The patient was not diabetic and had a hemoglobin A1C of 5.9. Moreover, he had no history of hypertension and was normotensive throughout his admission. After failing to respond to this treatment, the patient was told that he would need a below-the-knee amputation. The patient refused and decided to explore other options including seeking a second opinion and researching online supplements.
After exhausting other options and treatments, the patient heard from a friend about leech therapy. H