This patient was a 26-year-old female with a past medical history of catastrophic antiphospholipid syndrome secondary to newly diagnosed SLE, acute on chronic ITP, hypertension, and hyperlipidemia who presented from an outside facility with shortness of breath and chest pain. She reported to her primary care physician that morning with worsening cough over the last year that became productive within the last 3 months and became painful within the last day. She described parasternal chest pain that radiated to her throat that was exacerbated by cold and smoking and a non-radiating parasternal chest pain worsened with cough. She also stated she had increasing shortness of breath upon ambulation and while lying flat. Her primary care physician sent her to her local hospital for further evaluation. Laboratory studies from the outside facility were notable for a D-dimer of 3.4 mcg/mL, hemoglobin of 18.9 g/dL, and platelet count of 130,000/uL. Chest radiograph () was initially reported as no acute cardiopulmonary process. Further evaluation by computed tomography (CT) chest pulmonary embolism protocol was performed (), which demonstrated a large intracavitary heterogeneous, irregular, calcified mass extending into the right atrium, across the tricuspid valve, and into the right ventricle and pulmonary outflow tract. Additionally, a small to moderate pericardial effusion was noted, with reflux of contrast in the collateral veins, suggestive of restrictive cardiac dysfunction. With concern for cardiac tamponade, the patient was transferred to our institution for further evaluation by cardiology.
After transfer from her local hospital to our tertiary University hospital emergency department, a transthoracic echocardiogram confirmed the presence of a large pericardial effusion and noted significant clot burden and possible intracavitary right ventricular mass which was incompletely characterized (). Normal heart rate and blood pressure in the emergency department suggested that the patient was not in cardiac tamponade, but cardiology recommended a pericardiocentesis and cardiac CT and cardiac magnetic resonance imaging (MRI).
CT heart morphology ( and ) revealed a heterogeneous irregular calcified mass extending into the right atrium, across the