A 33-year-old woman with a history of morbid obesity (385 pounds, body mass index 62.16 kg/m2), tobacco use, and anxiety and depression presented to the ophthalmology clinic with complaints of progressive blurry vision and peripheral visual field defects over the past month after stopping minocycline treatment. She noted that her visual disturbances were associated with a unilateral temporal headache and nausea without emesis. These symptoms worsened with bending and straining (Valsalva). On initial exam by an ophthalmologist, bilateral optic disc edema was found and was confirmed by optical coherence tomography of the retinal nerve fiber layer.
A lumbar puncture (LP) was performed which showed an elevated opening pressure of 37 mmH2O, confirming the presence of intracranial hypertension. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the brain showed mildly prominent fluid within the optic sheaths, suggestive of reverse cupping of the optic discs. Additionally, the MRI showed globular hyperintense lesions on T2 and FLAIR (fluid-attenuated inversion recovery) within the juxtacortical white matter, without periventricular lesions (Figure ). These findings are consistent with elevated intracranial pressure, possibly in the setting of a concomitant demyelinating process. Magnetic resonance venography showed no evidence of occlusion or thrombosis. CSF analysis from the lumbar puncture revealed the presence of 15 oligoclonal bands and lymphocytosis. The MRI findings in conjunction with the oligoclonal bands would be suggestive of a demyelinating process such as MS in addition to IIH.
She was started on acetazolamide to help with her intracranial hypertension and referred to neurology for further evaluation of demyelinating disease. On follow up with ophthalmology one week later, her headaches and visual symptoms were much improved. Optical coherence tomography of the retinal nerve fiber layer showed improvement in optic disc edema, with remaining edema of moderate severity and gliosis of surrounding vessels with no hemorrhages. The following month, her headaches and vision remained stable, with headaches occurring about once per week with no visual field defects