A 34-year-old woman presented with an 8-day history of a progressively worsening left-sided headache, originating around her eye and radiating backwards. She also reported six days of worsening horizontal diplopia on binocular vision and more recent nausea. There were no other constitutional symptoms.
She has a ten pack-year smoking history, with otherwise sober social habits. On past medical history, she was previously treated for Hodgkin's lymphoma (HL), achieving remission in 2009. She was diagnosed with HL stage IIA in May 2007 and was treated with six cycles of ABVD chemotherapy, followed by DHAP chemotherapy and involved-field radiation therapy. In February 2009, she suffered a relapse of her HL which was treated with six cycles of OPEC chemotherapy. A PET scan after this treatment revealed no further active disease. There was no neurological involvement during either of these presentations. She then had yearly follow-up appointments with the oncology team until she was discharged in 2014 and considered to be in remission. Since then, she remained asymptomatic.
On examination, she was a healthy-looking young lady with no remarkable abnormalities noted on general, respiratory, or cardiovascular exam. Of note, there were no palpable lymph nodes globally. Neuro-ophthalmic examination revealed normal visual acuity and visual fields, and fundoscopy was normal, with no evidence of proptosis or chemosis. Neurological examination on admission revealed a left abducens nerve palsy and left-sided trigeminal sensory loss in the first and second divisions. The rest of the neurological exam was initially normal; however, within days of her admission, her symptoms progressed to involve the oculomotor nerve on the left as well. This was accompanied with worsening pain, consistent with involvement of the left cavernous sinus.
In terms of investigations, an extensive blood work-up revealed only a slightly raised ESR of 26 on admission. A full blood count, renal and liver function panel, thyroid function, beta D glucan, HIV and syphilis screen, hepatitis