A 62-year-old Caucasian woman presented to the emergency department with a history of progressive muscular weakness associated with nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea. At baseline, the patient was independently ambulating with a walker. However, she started to have a gradual bilateral upper and lower extremities weakness for two weeks before her presentation. As a result, she became dependent on her roommate to perform daily living activities (i.e., bathing, dressing, toileting, transferring, and feeding). She also reports an associated history of diarrhea three to four times a day since the onset of her symptoms. She reports a history of weight loss, poor appetite, polyuria, polydipsia, memory impairment, decreased visual acuity, and hearing loss on review of systems. She denied any history of shortness of breath or chest pain. The patient stated that she has been drinking 8-10 cans of 16 oz of Pepsi cola every day. The past medical history is remarkable for chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), history of abdominal trauma with subsequent splenectomy, gastroesophageal reflux with esophagitis and hiatal hernia status post failed Nissan fundoplication, alcohol abuse, and longstanding multiple psychiatric disorders treated with different antipsychotics and antidepressants. The patient stated that she had not taken any of her home medications for more than two weeks before the presentation. In addition, she reports a 20 pack-years history of cigarette smoking and lived with a roommate who has been busy lately and did not provide sufficient support to the patient.
On physical examination, vital signs were normal; the patient looked cachexic and dehydrated with dry skin and mucous membranes. She was also confused with impaired remote memory and appeared in poor hygiene as she could not shower or sanitize her excreta for three to four days due to weakness. Neurological examination showed normal cranial nerves, a decreased strength in the upper and lower extremities (3/5 and 2/5, respectively), and normal sensation