The patient was a 40-year-old woman with myoma of the uterus. She was 172 cm tall and weighed 60 kg. She was not taking medication and her family history was unremarkable. She did not smoke, but she had a habit of consuming a small amount of alcohol a day. Laparoscopic hysteromyomectomy was performed under general anesthesia for treatment of uterine myoma. In laparoscopic surgery, we took pneumoperitoneum at 15 to 20 mmHg for one hour. Around 2:00 am on post operative day (POD) 4, sudden chest and back pain and bilateral lower limb paralysis appeared. The discharge schedule was canceled because it became impossible for the patient to stand on both sides. The obstetrics and gynecology on-duty doctor then requested our department to perform a closer examination.
At the time of the examination, chest and back pain had alleviated, and motor paralysis was also improving, with the patient able to kneel on the right side to an extent. However, she was unable to kneel on the left side and her manual muscle test (MMT) score was 2/5. About 1 hour later, headache appeared and a head CT scan was performed. This showed no abnormal findings, and headache disappeared after administration of acetaminophen. There were no abnormal neurological findings in the upper limbs, but increased deep tendon reflexes, hypoesthesia and muscle weakness were observed in both legs. These findings led to suspicion of thoracic spine disease. Since it was nighttime and paralysis seemed to be improving, cervical and thoracic spine MRI was delayed until the morning. This showed an abnormal finding from the cervical vertebra to the upper thoracic vertebra, and the patient was then formally transferred to the orthopedic department.
Upon transfer, her consciousness was clear and blood pressure was 139/93 mmHg. The electrocardiogram showed sinus rhythm with no arrhythmia, and there was no abnormality in respiratory spirometry. No abnormalities were found in deep tendon reflexes of both upper limbs, but bilateral patellar tendon and Achilles tendon