A 75-year-old woman with a history of coronary artery disease (status post- coronary artery bypass graft seven years ago) and RA (diagnosed ten years back being treated with 10 mg/day of prednisone and 200 mg/day of Plaquenil) was admitted to the hospital for evaluation of new-onset seizure. She was followed by a rheumatologist when she was living in Texas several years back, and presently it is managed by her primary care physician. The patient has tried several medications for her RA, including Imuran and monthly injections, and reports that only prednisone helps her arthritis.
A CT scan of the head done in the Emergency Room did not show any acute intracranial process but suggested the possibility of a cervical spine fracture. Dedicated CT of the cervical spine did confirm type II odontoid fracture (
). The patient was evaluated by Neurosurgery and opted for conservative management with a cervical collar as the patient did not have any neurological symptoms. On the night of admission to the medical floor, the patient developed hypoxemia and was started on supplemental oxygen through the nasal cannula. However, her saturation continued to deteriorate, leading to the development of severe bradycardia was transferred to the Intensive Care Unit for further management. Urgent CT pulmonary angiogram did not show any embolism nor pleuro-parenchymal changes. In the intensive care unit, the patient was initially treated with nasal cannula oxygen and later high flow oxygen without any improvement in saturation. The patient reported some breathlessness but was not in distress. Clinical examination was normal. This newly diagnosed unexplained hypoxemia was attributed to the hard cervical collar leading to airway compromise. However, despite trying a different sized hard collar and soft cervical collar, she continued to show hypoxemia. The patient was later started on with Bilevel Positive Airway Pressure (BIPAP) with improvement in saturation. By evening, the saturation dropped to 70% despite the up-titration of BiPAP settings and developed sinus bradycardia with a heart rate