A 39-year-old female presented with severe excruciating left leg pain to gentle touch and left leg swelling. She had been diagnosed and treated conservatively with warfarin elsewhere for extensive proximal left lower extremity DVT and a small right lower lobe pulmonary embolism a week before. The patient was hemodynamically stable but was uncomfortable due to severe pain. Her left leg was almost twice the size of her normal right leg. Physical examination showed pitting edema, focal bluish discoloration over the anterior lower shin, visible varicosities, and peripheral pulses detectable only by Doppler ultrasonography. She had exquisite tenderness to palpation in the left leg and pain with passive motion. However, she was able to move her legs. Her body mass index was 26.8 kg/m2.
Her past medical history was not significant and she denied any history of smoking or illicit drug use. She was homeless and had a history of two spontaneous miscarriages in the past with no obvious cause, but she denied a history of any medications including oral contraceptive pills. Family history of hypercoagulable states was absent. Laboratory values including renal function tests and lipid profile were unremarkable except for an international normalized ratio (INR) of 1.6. Human immunodeficiency virus and hepatitis C virus serology were negative. Venous Doppler study showed a large clot extending from the left common iliac vein to the common femoral vein and the popliteal vein. CT venogram of the lower extremity confirmed the clot and showed a small amount of thrombus at the inferior vena cava (IVC)/left common iliac vein junction. The above findings suggested the diagnosis of MTS (Figures -).
As she was a suitable candidate for mechanical thrombolysis and thrombectomy, she underwent catheter-directed mechanical thrombolysis and thrombectomy of the complete left lower extremity venous system and the left common iliac vein on the third day of admission. She was monitored in the intensive care unit postoperatively and had no complications. On the next day, angioplasty