Another patient, a 55-year-old gentleman, presented to the emergency department chief complaints of blackish discolouration of the left lower limb up to the knee for five days. It was started distally involving the toes at first, which gradually progressed to affect the limb up to the knee. He had no history of diabetes, cardiac disease, hypertension, or history of transient ischemic attack. There was no family history of any atherosclerotic disease. He was not a smoker. Notably, he was diagnosed as COVID-19 positive 21 days back. The inflammatory markers like CRP, ferritin, D-dimer, and IL-6 were raised. For this, he received treatment at a tertiary care hospital for 15 days with antibiotics, steroids and Anti-virals without anticoagulants (as he was categorised to have mild to moderate grade disease).
On examination, he had tachycardia and tachypnoea. The respiratory system examination revealed bilateral vesicular breath sound heard all over the chest without any added abnormal sound. The cardiovascular system examination showed no abnormality. Local examination of the left lower limb revealed gangrene below the knee joint (Figure ).
There was redness, edema, skin exfoliation, and tenderness up to the thigh. The foot distal to the ankle joint was cold. All the pulses were absent except the feeble left femoral pulse. The pulses in the opposite limb and other peripheral pulses were well felt. There was no motor activity below the knee. The patient was started on empirical broad-spectrum antibiotics. During the investigation, CT angiography showed complete occlusion of the mid superficial femoral artery, popliteal artery, and infra popliteal artery with poor collateral status (Figure , ).
The echocardiography of the patient was found to be normal. Blood investigations revealed neutrophilic leucocytosis. As there was already an onset of gangrene over the distal part of the limb, revascularisation was out of option. So the patient was left with no options other than left