This 44-year-old Saudi female was not known to have any medical illness, presented to the emergency department with a history of epigastric pain three days earlier to admission. The pain was continuous, started suddenly, and was 9/10 in severity according to the patient with no diurnal variation. Pain radiated to the back, stretching in nature, aggravated by movement, and relieved by rest. The pain was associated with nausea and vomiting (gastric content). There was no history of change in bowel habits, urine, or cardiopulmonary symptoms. The patient was neither a non-smoker nor an alcoholic. The patient denied any history of abdominal trauma, scorpion bites, recent medication use, or previous similar complain. Family history was insignificant for autoimmune disease, inherited diseases, or similar complaints. The surgical history was clear. The patient was known to have morbid obesity, for which she underwent a minimally invasive procedure; an IGB was inserted three weeks ago. She lost 20 kg, from 130 kg to 110 kg. Eight months ago, the patient was COVID-19 positive, for which she was managed in the intensive care unit for three days.
On examination, the patient was hemodynamically and vitally stable. The abdominal examination revealed severe epigastric tenderness, normal bowel sounds, and soft lax consistency in other regions. No abnormalities were detected on systemic examination.
On investigation, laboratory, complete blood count showed leucocytosis, renal and liver function tests were within normal limits. Amylase was above the average level values 291 (see Table ). Imaging showed ultrasound was nil for gallbladder stones or common bile duct dilatation. CT scan of the abdomen showed acute interstitial edematous pancreatitis with compression of the pancreas by balloon. Furthermore, there was dislodgment of the catheter into the duodenum (Figure ).
The patient was treated conservatively by nothing per oral, intravenous fluids, antiemetics, and analgesia. The patient improved clinically and was discharged after three days