A 36-year-old woman presented with mastalgia and yellowish discharge from her right breast. She reported family history (maternal lineage) positive for cancer. Her mother was diagnosed with BC at 33 and died, and maternal grandmother at 65 years, also from BC. Uncle who had been a smoker died of lung cancer at the age of 70. She has no other live relatives and siblings and has one 3-year-old son. Radiologic imaging found no suspicious lesions in the breast nor enlarged lymph nodes but showed solitary mediastinal mass which was surgically removed. Patohistological examination revealed fibrous tumor with increased mitotic activity, positive for CD34 and STAT6 by immunohistochemistry staining (Fig. ). Both tumors/breast cancer and solitary fibrous tumor have stained negative for p53 protein.
No further treatment was indicated and after 4 years of follow-up, a lesion in the upper left quadrant of the right breast was discovered. Needle biopsy suggested a luminal B-like invasive BC so she underwent mastectomy and axillary dissection. Surgical pathology specimen showed pT1bN1 grade 3 carcinoma (ER 100%, PR 80%, Her2 negative, Ki 67 26.5%, micrometastasis in 1 out of 11 lymph nodes).
Four cycles of adjuvant treatment with doxorubicin and cyclophosphamide was administered followed by radiotherapy and tamoxifen with ovarian function suppression. The testing for BRCA1/2 was carried out and found no mutations.
One year later, during preoperative evaluation for breast reconstruction surgery, 4 pulmonary nodular lesions were discovered on chest computed tomography (CT) scan. A CT-guided biopsy of one of the suspected metastases was performed and pathohistological examination was consistent with metastasis of malignant fibrous tumor. Tamoxifen was switched to exemestane due to its possible proliferative effect on fibrous tumor. Chemotherapy for stage IV sarcoma with temozolomide and bevacizumab was initiated given the prior anthracycline chemotherapy.
In the light of the two known malignancies, the patient was referred to genetic counseling and