A 51-year-old female presented to the department with complaints of chronic fatigue, laboratory findings of microcytic hypochromic anemia, and hemoglobin level of 66 g/l. The patient neither presented with additional GI complaints nor had signs of GI hemorrhage. The esophago-gastro-duodenoscopy (EGD) revealed a pedunculated polyp in the descending part of the duodenum with a small area of superficial ulcerated mucosa (Figure ). The endoscopic biopsy showed duodenal mucosal epithelium with minor signs of dysplasia, solitary mucous glands, eosinophilic inflammatory infiltrate, and granulation tissue proliferation. This result neither suggested epithelial origin, nor could rule out malignant origin and the patient was scheduled for endoscopic ultrasound and CT.
Endoscopic ultrasound revealed a lesion in the second sonographic layer of the duodenal wall without distinct margin and a heterogenous isoechoic echo pattern (Figure ).
The CT confirmed pedunculated polyp sized 51 x 27 x 22 mm in the horizontal and descending part of duodenum with peripheral enhancing of 18-20 HU and hypodense core (Figure ). No abdominal lymphadenopathy was found.
The patient had significant comorbidities such as ischemic heart disease with stenting of two coronary branches, hypertension, and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. Risk factors include smoking over 40 years, uncontrolled obesity with body mass index (BMI) of 31.0. The patient was scheduled for elective surgery, but due to the COVID-19 pandemics and the cancelation of elective surgical procedures, the treatment was postponed.
The patient failed to show up at appointments and sought medical attention eight months later with the progression of the initial symptoms and pronounced fatigability. Furthermore, the lack of physical activity led to an increase of the body weight and BMI to 33.7. The laboratory test confirmed again anemia and hemoglobin level 91 g/l. EGD and CT were repeated and demonstrated growth of the tumor which doubled its size to 85 x 30 x 28 mm. EUS showed intramural cystic transformation