A 79-year-old female presented to the department of acute geriatric medicine due to unintended weight loss of 6 kg in the last 6 months, loss of appetite and fatigue. The medical history was remarkable: exactly 2 years before admission she was admitted to the department of internal medicine in the same hospital because of thoracic pain on the right side with an intensity of 10 in the visual analog scale. In the computed tomography a spiculated pulmonary lesion of 30 mm diameter was detected in the right anterolateral upper lobe of the lung. The radiologist classified the lesion highly suspicious for cancer. A positron emission tomography confirmed the suspicion for cancer due to high activity in the fluorodeoxyglucose metabolism. A newly detected pleural effusion was drained and amber fluid with bloody spots was analyzed. It revealed a mass of neutrophilic granulocytes, histiocytes and mesothelial cells, findings that were classified as reactive for inflammation. No tumor cells were found. Cultures for the detection of tuberculosis and anaerobic or aerobic germs were negative. Aminopenicillin was given parenterally and an appointment was made for bioptic clarification of the lesion for outpatients, an appointment that was not perceived because of negative attitudes of the patient against an invasive procedure. Therefore, no exact diagnosis of the tumor could be made. No further decision making process between physician and patient`s relatives were documented.
Two years later, on admission to the department of acute geriatric medicine, she had a reduced general condition. On her right upper field, the respiratory sound was attenuated. Her skin was pale, and she was emaciated. The body mass index was 16 (ideal value 24–29, age and sex adjusted).
In the comprehensive geriatric assessment, we found 18.5 score points in the Mini Nutritional Assessment (range 0–30 points, lower points indicating malnutrition), indicating malnutrition and 95 score points (range 0–100 points, higher points indicating higher performance status) in the Barthel index, indicating the self-care unc