A 62-year-old man with a 40-pack-year smoking history was referred to the urologic oncology clinic for workup of an incidentally discovered renal mass. After undergoing chest imaging for lung cancer screening, a right renal mass was found. Follow-up computed tomography (CT) imaging demonstrated a 7.5 × 7.4 × 7.5 cm well-circumscribed mass arising from the mid right kidney that enhanced homogenously with few calcifications (Fig. a, b). He did not have any recent surgeries or traumas. He was instructed to complete imaging work-up by obtaining a doppler ultrasound study. The ultrasound was completed on the same day and demonstrated a large vascular lesion with pulsatile flow concerning for a renal pseudoaneurysm (Fig. c). The patient was informed of the results and told to return promptly to the hospital for admission. After arriving, Interventional Radiology (IR) performed a renal angiogram which demonstrated a large aneurysm arising near the bifurcation of the right upper pole artery. IR attempted placement of a covered stent, but there was no good landing zone. A coil embolization was also considered, but it was ultimately deferred given the risk for infarction of a large portion of the right kidney.
Given the possible need for vascular reconstruction, the patient was transferred to the vascular surgery service at a neighboring hospital. The vascular team discussed options with the patient including open surgical reconstruction or endovascular intervention. Open surgery could involve auto-transplantation of the kidney after ex vivo reconstruction of the aneurysm. Another option is local repair of the aneurysm in-situ with aneurysm excision and reimplantation of the superior pole branch of the renal artery. Alternatively, endovascular approaches including placement of a covered stent or renal angioembolization could also be performed. Ultimately, the patient and the vascular team agreed to repeat an attempt for placement of a covered stent.
Selective angiogram of the right renal artery confirmed a renal artery aneurysm originating from the superior pole branch (F