A 29-year-old male with no known past medical history was referred to the office for lower urinary tract symptoms and hematuria. He described a three-year history of symptoms including decreased force and caliber of his stream, difficulty urinating, and intermittent gross hematuria. He denied any smoking history, fever, dysuria, or flank pain. A urine sample was submitted for urinalysis, which was negative for signs of infection, and urine culture, which was also negative. He was treated with tamsulosin and was advised to return in two weeks for evaluation with in-office cystoscopy if the symptoms persisted.
The patient returned to the office two weeks later with persistent lower urinary tract symptoms. A repeat urine sample was submitted for analysis the prior day, which was again negative. He then underwent in-office cystoscopy which revealed an inflammatory-appearing mass at the bladder neck and trigone and base of the prostate gland. The urethra was normal without strictures. A computerized tomography (CT) urogram was ordered to further evaluate for any lesions due to hematuria. Transurethral resection of the bladder tumor was scheduled for the operating room.
Outpatient CT urogram was significant for posterior wall thickening with low levels of enhancement without any lesions (Figure ). Two weeks after undergoing CT evaluation, the patient returned to the operating room for cystoscopy. Cystoscopy in the operating room showed cystic lesions at the level of the prostate extending to the trigone of the bladder (Figures , ). The mass was partially obstructing the prostatic urethra. Transurethral resection of the tumor was performed, and samples were sent for pathology. Although pathology examination was negative for carcinoma, it demonstrated urothelium with florid cystitis cystica et glandularis with adequate tissue sampling proven by the presence of focal muscularis propria (Figure ).
During his postoperative follow-up in the office, the patient reported resolution of his voiding symptoms. Urinalysis demonstrated microscopic hematuria, likely