A 25-year-old male student presented with persistent discomfort over the lateral malleolus following an uncomplicated twisting inversion injury of the ankle 3 months prior. The pain was responding to bandage compression and simple analgesia, however was limiting moderately strenuous exercise. On examination, there was full range of movement at the ankle in all directions, with discomfort on maximal dorsiflexion and eversion. A mild effusion of the ankle joint was appreciated compared to the contralateral side. No ankle deformities or overlying skin changes were appreciated. The patient was previously healthy, on no regular medication. He smokes and drinks only socially. Routine blood investigations taken recently had been unremarkable.
An x-ray was performed on first presentation which demonstrated multiple globular calcified loose bodies in the anterior aspect of the joint, in keeping with suspected synovial chondromatosis (). No fracture or joint deterioration was noted.
Magnetic resonance imaging of the ankle joint was performed to better visualize the lesions ().
This confirmed the presence of multiple variably sized loose bodies within the ankle, primarily in the anterior and anterolateral recesses. The lesions were of indeterminate signal intensity on T1 and proton dense fat saturated images with a thin sclerotic rim. The largest loose body was 12 mm. The ankle and subtalar articular surfaces were normal with no evidence of osteochondral lesions or tarsal coalition. The visualized bones and ligaments were unremarkable.
Open removal of 27 loose bodies from the anterior gutter was performed, with the larger bodies sent for analysis (). An open approach, as opposed to arthroscopic, was opted for in view of the large number of bodies and to visually ensure complete removal. The procedure was successful having obtained complete clearance with no intraoperative complications. The patient was discharged home on the same day with simple analgesia. He was advised to keep the limb elevated, allowed full weight bearing with crutches, and referred for physiotherapy. A postoperative review at two weeks showed no interval complications, good functional outcome