Patient M.C. is a 32 year old male smoker involved in a motor vehicle accident who sustained a closed, displaced talar neck fracture. This was treated with initial external fixation and staged open reduction internal fixation (ORIF) in 2018.
He developed a nonunion with post-traumatic ankle arthrosis and failed appropriate conservative modalities (Fig. ). Given his daily pain, disability and inability to continue employment as a construction worker he was indicated for surgical intervention. Multiple surgical options were considered. He had a history of heavy tobacco use but was willing to abstain preoperatively. However given this history, attempted bone grafting and ORIF or hindfoot arthrodesis in any form were considered to be at significant risk for nonunion. Given the maintained adjacent joint surfaces, a custom total talus replacement was felt to be the best clinical option in this highly comorbid patient.
Bilateral ankle computed tomography (CT) scans were performed preoperatively. An anatomically-matched custom cobalt chrome right talus was designed and manufactured (restor3D Inc. Durham, NC) based off 3-D reconstructions from the contralateral normal talus (Fig. ). Three sizes were provided including an exact size match, and 95 and 105 % volume size renderings. A channel was designed in the dorsal neck to accommodate the curve of a circle taper-2 needle for soft tissue and capsular closure.
After a period of preoperative smoking cessation and optimization, he underwent successful right talectomy and total talus replacement (Fig. ). He did well in the initial postoperative period but presented with a small wound dehiscence 6 weeks post-surgery. Conservative wound care was trialed but failed and there was increasing drainage, dehiscence and concerns for deep infection. He underwent irrigation and debridement with the prosthesis retained. Deep cultures revealed a methicillin-sensitive Staphylococcus aureus and Streptococcus anginosus infection and he was placed on appropriate intravenous (IV) antibiotic therapy per the consulting infectious disease service. Negative pressure wound therapy was applied and continued upon hospital