Patient LC is a 57 year old male smoker with Hepatitis C, who underwent primary subtalar fusion in 2001 after a fall from a height. He had no known postoperative complications, but never had resolution of pain. He had a spontaneous eruption of purulent drainage from the wound 10 years post operatively which was treated with debridement, irrigation and IV antibiotics. His wound healed, but he continued to have exquisite pain limiting weight bearing. His presenting clinical examination to our institution was notable for erythema and warmth along the lateral ankle. Imaging was significant for a subtalar nonunion, broken hardware, and destruction of the talus consistent with an infected nonunion of the subtalar joint and osteomyelitis (Fig. A-C). Given evidence of continued infection in this 57 year old smoker, his options for limb salvage were exceptionally limited. The options and associated risks were thoroughly discussed with the patient. The decided plan was for talectomy, extensive irrigation and debridement, and anatomic antibiotic cement talus spacer placement. A contralateral hindfoot CT scan was utilized to produce a custom cobalt chrome mold of the inverse contralateral talus (restor3D Inc. Durham, NC) which would restore height and alignment of his hindfoot while providing concentrated local delivery of antibiotics.
He was lost to follow up for 3 months at which time, he presented to the ED with bacteremia and elevated laboratory markers/indices. He was admitted to the hospital, started on IV antibiotics, and taken to the operating room the following day for talus excision, debridement, and 3D custom molded antibiotic cement spacer placement.
Intraoperatively, he had marked erosion of the native talus which was removed along with the surrounding fibrotic tissue to the level of the calcaneus. Multiple tissue specimens were sent to microbiology and pathology. Care was taken to avoid injury to the tibia plafond chondral surface. The 95 % volumetric rendering sizer had excellent fit without overstuffing or allowing excessive hindfoot