A 54-year-old male presented to surgical emergency room of Aleppo University Hospital with the complaints of sharp pain in the left lower extremity with pallor and coldness, in addition to the presence of coldness with no pulse in the lower right extremity, these symptoms are consistent with the presence of acute arterial obstruction in the left lower extremity.
During the clinical examination of the abdomen, a large and pulsating mass was noted from the abdomen wall. Despite the presence of this very large pulsating mass, the patient did not complain of any digestive symptoms such as digestive discomfort, abdominal pain or bloody defecation. The clinical history indicated the existence of a previous surgical operation to repair anal hemorrhoids 8 years ago, in addition to the presence of orally treated systemic hypertension. Notably, the patient smoked an average of one pack per day for 40 years.
Initial blood tests included a white blood cell count of 8.8 × 10^9/L, hemoglobin level 10.7, platelets count 171 × 10^3/UL. Laboratory tests for electrolytes, liver and kidney enzymes were within the normal ranges.
A multislice CT scan with contrast was performed showing the presence of a dissected aneurysm of approximately 8 × 13 cm with complete obstruction of the abdominal aortic lumen below the renal arteries (, ). The open surgery was performed with the participation of four doctors from the vascular surgery department, an anesthesiologist and a nurse. We used halothane for general anesthesia. We removed a large aneurysm (), and installed a 16 × 8 double aortofemoral dacron joint (). The operation took 2 h, We did not face any difficulties during the surgery, but we were very careful to deal sensitively with aneurysms of this large size. A surgical drain was installed. Fortunately, it was within 24 hours, as no purulent or serous oozing was noticed. To avoid infection of the wounds after surgery, metronidazole was given with ceftriaxone intravenously, with intravenous paracetamol for pain relief.