A 39-year-old male was transferred to our university hospital from a rural general hospital with generalized tonic-clonic seizures. The patient presented high fever, severe headache, and purulent nasal secretions over the last three days but his vital parameters were normal. Apart from his statement that he was a tobacco smoker, no previous medical conditions were reported.
Initially, one week prior to hospitalization, he was diagnosed with inflammation of the paranasal sinusitis by a private otorhinolaryngologist who had prescribed a combined antibacterial medical treatment of amoxicillin/clavulanate potassium and clindamycin. However, five days later, he was referred to the emergency department (ED) of the rural hospital with epileptic seizure. Regarding his medical history, the patient had suffered from sinusitis five years ago but no history of epilepsy was mentioned, not even in his family history.
The CT scan that was performed revealed findings only in the right maxillary, ethmoid, and frontal sinuses but not in the parenchymal brain (Figures , ). Concerning the laboratory results, it was found a leukocytosis of over 20,000 per cubic millimeter of blood, elevated levels of C-reactive protein (CRP) and erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR), and mild electrolyte disturbances. Because of high suspicion for meningitis or encephalitis, the patient was transported by ambulance to our university hospital for further investigation and treatment.
Firstly in the neurology department, an intravenous combination of ceftriaxone, clindamycin, and acyclovir was given along with antiepileptics. However, for the following three days, there was no response to the antibiotics. On the contrary, the patient displayed dyspnoea and bradycardia but echocardiography did not demonstrate any pathology. For the dyspnoea, a CT scan of the chest was executed, which revealed pleural effusion and therefore it was decided to modify the antibiotic medication with vancomycin and meropenem.
After 48 hours of treatment, the patient presented disorientation and abnormal behavior. The MRI of the brain that was performed, indicated