We report the case of a 35-year-old male patient who presented to the infertility clinic with primary infertility for 10 years. He has a regular sexual activity every three days with no difficulties related to libido or potency. He had no urinary complaints. He has no history of smoking or alcohol drinking. The family history was unremarkable for infertility. The past medical history was non-contributory.
His spouse is a 30-year-old woman with no health issues. She has regular menstrual cycles with no history of dysmenorrhea or menorrhagia. She had not undergone any operations in the past and had no history of sexually transmitted diseases. They reported that the problem of infertility was having a significant psychological impact on their lives.
Physical examination of the patient showed normal abdominal and genital examination with both testes were in size. Physical examination of the spouse revealed a soft abdomen with no masses or tenderness. Bimanual pelvic examination was normal.
Basic semen analysis was performed for the patient, which revealed a normal semen color and viscosity, a semen volume of 2 ml, and a sperm count of 10 million. Basic laboratory investigations, including hematological and biochemical tests, were within normal limits. Otherwise, his spouse had a normal hormonal profile with an unremarkable ultrasonic examination of the pelvis. Additionally, her hysterosalpingography examination showed a normal uterus and patent fallopian tubes.
Subsequently, the patient underwent a bedside ultrasound which revealed an absence of the right kidney. Computed tomography examination confirmed the finding of right renal agenesis and a well-circumscribed cyst in the pelvis (Figure , ). Such findings were consistent with the diagnosis of Zinner syndrome.
Accordingly, the patient was planned to have a transurethral aspiration of the seminal vesicle cyst combined with minocycline sclerotherapy. Analysis of the aspirated fluid revealed spermatozoa. A few months later, the patient repeated the basic semen analysis and showed improvement in the sperm parameters.