A 71-year-old Irish Caucasian female presented with sub-acute bilateral lower limb pitting edema and dyspnea. Her background history included obesity (BMI 45.5), atrial fibrillation, obstructive sleep apnea, subclinical hyperthyroidism, eosinophilic colitis, and diverticular disease. She was an ex-smoker with a 20 pack-year history. Furthermore, she was under surveillance for a 3 cm ovarian cyst with the local gynecology services.
The patient had normal cardiac and respiratory examinations. Her transthoracic echocardiogram showed an ejection fraction of more than 50% with normal left and right ventricles and valves. Her chest radiograph was also unremarkable. An abdominal ultrasound was performed to assess for a pelvic mass that could impede pelvic venous return leading to peripheral edema. Ultrasound revealed an 8 cm hyperechoic mass lesion at the superior pole of the right kidney as well as a 2 cm hypoechoic liver lesion (Figure ). Subsequent computed tomography (CT) the of abdomen and pelvis with contrast confirmed an 8 cm smoothly defined heterogeneous right adrenal mass (Hounsfield Unit 57.75) and a number of low attenuation lesions throughout the liver (Figure ).
The patient exhibited potential features of cortisol excess including weight gain of 11 kg over two months and depression. She also had a newly diagnosed type 2 diabetes mellitus prior to admission with glycated hemoglobin (HbA1c) of 50 mmol/mol. The hormonal evaluation was consistent with hypercortisolism with failure to suppress on overnight dexamethasone suppression test and elevated 24-hour urinary free cortisol (Table ). There was no clinical or laboratory evidence of pheochromocytoma, hyperaldosteronism, or increased sex hormone production.
The patient was transferred to a tertiary referral center for surgical evaluation. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and repeat CT thorax, abdomen, and pelvis demonstrated a large necrotic adrenal mass consistent with a primary adrenocortical carcinoma with direct invasion into the intrahepatic inferior vena cava. Multiple lung nodules concerning pulmonary metastasis were also observed. A diagnosis of adrenocortical carcinoma