A 64-year-old male with a past medical history of hypertension presents to our facility with complaints of worsening abdominal pain for the last week. The patient reported that he had been experiencing abdominal discomfort that he initially attributed to gastric reflux, for which he was prescribed anti-reflux medications by his primary care physician, without improvement of symptoms. He stated that the abdominal pain was initially intermittent but subsequently progressed to persistent and constant abdominal pain. He also reported associated abdominal distension during the past week, with nausea and vomiting that began one day prior to presentation. The patient additionally reported not having a bowel movement for the past three weeks. The patient denies previous abdominal operations as well as ever undergoing a colonoscopy or upper endoscopy. He denies any family history of cancer. He reported denied a history of tobacco, alcohol or illicit substance use. He reported his occupation as a mechanic.
The patient’s vitals were stable on first encounter, apart from mild tachycardia of 103 beats per minute that normalized with intravenous crystalloid resuscitation. A complete blood count as well as chemistry panel were within normal limits. Lactic acid level was 1.2 mmol/Liter.
The patient’s physical exam was significant for abdominal distension that was tympanic to percussion in all four quadrants. The patient’s abdomen was diffusely tender to palpation, with increased tenderness in the epigastrium, but without peritonitis. No hernia was palpated in the bilateral inguinal regions. There were no prior surgical scars on the abdomen or pelvis.
Computed tomography (CT) of the abdomen and pelvis with intravenous contrast only demonstrated a high-grade obstruction with dilated, fluid-filled loops of small bowel and a transition point in the right lower quadrant (Figure ). The transition point demonstrated a segment of circumferential wall thickening without fat stranding (Figure ). There was no free air or fluid noted.
The patient underwent an exploratory laparotomy where an 8 cm stenotic segment of proximal ileum