A 63-year-old Taiwanese woman presented to our emergency department with sudden onset of weakness in both lower limbs. Her medical history included hypertension, anemia, and a cardiovascular accident without neurological sequelae. Two hours before admission, she experienced acute onset of bilateral lower back pain while bathing. She rated the pain as 5 out of 10 on the numeric rating scale (NRS). Approximately 30 min after her bath, while she was resting and watching television, she experienced sudden bilateral lower limb pain, weakness, and numbness. The numbness was described as the same feeling that follows electric shock. The back and lower limb pain worsened, and the NRS score rose from 5/10 to 10/10. She was unable to walk or even stand up because of the weakness and pain in both limbs. After calling the emergency number, she was sent to the regional hospital where magnetic resonance imaging of the thoracic spine to lumbar spine revealed an epidural hematoma extending from the levels of T12 to L1 (Figs. and ). Some analgesic medication was injected twice, but the pain persisted. She was then transferred to our medical center for further treatment.
During history taking, the patient denied any other discomfort such as nausea, vomiting, dizziness, headache, choking, seizure, focal neurological deficits (such as visual change or aphasia), urinary incontinence, fecal incontinence, fever, neck pain, abdominal pain, or any history of back trauma. Although this patient had a stroke ~ 12 years ago, she had recovered almost entirely after undergoing rehabilitation for 2 years, and she had consumed neither aspirin nor anticoagulant since then. She had undergone acupuncture 2 years earlier for her chronic sciatica. The patient did drink alcoholic beverages and chewed betel nuts over the previous 30 years, but she had never smoked.
During admission to our emergency department, her body temperature was 36.4 °C, respiratory rate was 18 per min, pulse rate was 67 bpm, blood pressure was 185/