We report the case of a 41-year-old male who presented to our outpatient department with minor symptoms, including dyspnea during heavy activities. The patient did not have a history of fever, weight loss, malaise, or carotid tenderness but had a 1-year-old history of dyspnea on exertion. The patient never had any previous indications of autoimmune diseases or infections. Approximately 17 years earlier, at the age of 24, the patient experienced a frequent loss of consciousness during exercise. He had no history of hypertension, diabetes, smoking, dyslipidemia, or obesity. The patient was diagnosed with dilated cardiomyopathy a year ago, and echocardiography showed that all chambers were dilated with a left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) of 39%. The patient had received an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor, a beta-blocker, and spironolactone and had good compliance and functional outcomes as the patient has presently been classified as New York Heart Association functional class I. Physical examinations revealed blood pressure of < 120/80 mmHg and a heart rate of 60 beats per minute (bpm) because of the optimal medical treatment he had received since last year. The patient had left carotid bruit and an enlarged heart with a grade IV/VI holosystolic murmur on the apex radiating to the axilla. Chest X-ray showed cardiomegaly, and electrocardiography revealed sinus rhythm with a heart rate of 64 bpm, poor R wave progression, and left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH) (Fig. ). Transthoracic echocardiography (TTE) and transesophageal echocardiography (TEE) showed eccentric LVH with reduced ejection fraction and some hypoechoic lesions resembling cysts at the anterior, anteroseptal, and anterolateral walls, suggestive of myocardial detachment. Both ventricles were dilated with reduced LVEF (31%). A severe functional mitral regurgitation secondary to increased left ventricular end diastolic volume and mild aortic regurgitation due to aortic root dilatation and uncoaptation of the left coronary cusps were detected. Moreover, TTE and TEE data obtained last year showed