A 20-year-old man presented to the nephrology department with acute pain of both flanks which started after a physical exercise at school. His past medical history was unremarkable. He was not taking any medications or illicit drugs, and he denied smoking and consuming alcohol.
There was no abnormal finding in his physical examination. Vital signs were normal. Laboratory tests on admission showed acute kidney injury with a creatine kinase level of only twice the upper limit of the normal (). Urinalysis was bland, and the proteinuria was within the range (). Contrast-enhanced computed tomography showed decreased enhancement of the kidneys without any abnormality of the vessels and showed no urolithiasis. After conservative therapy including intravenous fluid administration, the renal function recovered gradually and returned to the normal at the fourth day after admission.
The patient reported that he was admitted 4 months ago in the emergency room of another hospital for a similar pain which occurred also after a strenuous exercise. Although laboratory tests showed acute kidney injury, he was discharged without any further investigation.
Laboratory tests were marked by severe hypouricemia. The elevated fractional excretion of urate (119%; N < 10%) suggested a highly increased urinary excretion of uric acid with tubular secretion. Blood and urinary tests showed no argument for Fanconi syndrome or syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone. Interesting enough, severe hypouricemia was also found in the laboratory tests of his mother and one of his maternal aunts. The occurrence of two episodes of acute kidney injury following intense exercise with the presence of hereditary severe hypouricemia highly suggested exercise-induced acute kidney injury due to familial renal hypouricemia.
This index patient (V6) is a member of a highly consanguineous Pakistani family with cousin marriages over two successive generations (). DNA sequencing by next-generation sequencing identified an homozygosity for a class 5 variant of the SLC2A9 gene (NM_020041.3