A 45-year-old male patient presented to our institution with a 3-week history of diffuse abdominal pain, tenesmus, and over 10 episodes of non-bloody diarrhea per day. The patient did not have nausea or vomiting nor did he report fever, chills, or unintentional weight loss. In the week prior to his presentation, he was assessed by his family physician who had ordered a panel of stool nucleic acid amplification tests which were negative for gastrointestinal infections. He was then trialed on a brief course of proton pump inhibitor as an outpatient with no improvement in his symptoms before presenting to the emergency department.
The only significant past medical history for our patient was a long-standing history of plaque psoriasis for which he was being treated with Ixekizumab. He had previously undergone multiple courses of biologic treatments with adjunctive phototherapy but did not achieve reasonable control of his disease until he was switched to Ixekizumab approximately 9 months ago. The patient did not have a family history of IBD or early onset colorectal cancer. He is a life-long non-smoker and he does not report excessive alcohol use. There was no history of recent travel, blood transfusions, intravenous drug use, or new sexual contacts.
On initial assessment, the patient was hemodynamically stable with diffuse non-peritonitic abdominal pain on physical examination. His laboratory investigations demonstrated marked elevation in his inflammatory marker (C-reactive protein of 388 mg/L) as well as a hepatocellular pattern of liver enzyme elevation (aspartate aminotransferase 234 U/L, alanine aminotransferase 142 U/L, alkaline phosphatase 143 U/L). A computed tomography (CT) of the abdomen and pelvis was performed revealing continuous circumferential bowel wall thickening of the left colon from the rectum to the splenic flexure on a background of reactive retroperitoneal lymphadenopathy (Fig. ). The patient was admitted to the internal medicine service and our gastroenterology experts were consulted for further endoscopic evaluation.
On flexible sigmoidoscopy, the patient was noted