A 47-year-old woman with one pregnancy and one parity, and no relevant medical, family, or menstruation history, presented to our hospital. The patient had been followed up from CIN 1 to 2 at a previous hospital for 8 years. A high-risk HPV test was negative twice. Subsequently, a papillary mass was found in the cervix, and histological examination of the cervix suggested CIN 3 or condyloma. Conization was performed at another hospital, and the diagnosis was cervical condyloma with a positive margin.
Subsequently, the patient returned to the previous hospital and was followed up. However, 3 months later, there was recurrence of papillary tumor in the cervix; a biopsy was performed, which led to the diagnosis of condyloma. Cervical laser ablation was performed to treat the tumor. Two months later, the cervical tumor relapsed. Although laser vaporization was performed, the tumor relapsed again after 1 month. Cryotherapy was performed to treat the relapsed tumor, but the cervical tumor relapsed. Since the tumor recurred repeatedly in a short time, pathohistological examination was performed by a pathologist at another hospital and the possibility of PSCC was indicated. The patient was then referred to our hospital for examination.
Colposcopy revealed a condyloma-like papillary tumor approximately 1.5 cm in diameter (Figure ). No abnormalities were observed in other internal examination findings. Transvaginal ultrasonography revealed no abnormal findings in the uterus or ovaries. The results of a cervical biopsy under colposcopy were atypical epithelium, which was difficult to diagnose by biopsy alone. There were no apparent abnormalities in the MRI findings (Figure ), CT findings, or tumor markers. Second cervical conization was performed to confirm the diagnosis (Figure ), and the patient was diagnosed with non-invasive PSCC (Figure ). Immunohistochemistry analysis showed that p16 and Ki67 were strongly positive in the surgical samples (Figure ). A cervical test for high-risk HPV was negative in our hospital. Laparoscopic total