The first case was that of a 46-year-old female with a past medical history remarkable for Fabry disease, hypertension, chronic complex migraines, obesity, obstructive sleep apnea, and peripheral arterial disease; the patient also had a smoking habit. This patient was initially seen for a regular follow-up appointment and was complaining of chest pain described as tightness, radiating to her left arm, and worse during the evenings and with exertion. She also described a tightening sensation in her neck that occurred with exertion.
She was referred for a dobutamine stress echocardiogram (DSE) based on these symptoms. No wall motion abnormalities were observed, and there was normal left ventricular systolic function (55-60%) at rest. At peak stress, new mild hypokinesis was seen along the inferior wall, as seen in Figures -, suggestive of right coronary artery ischemia. Stress-induced ischemic electrocardiographic changes with chest pain were noted. At this time, she was started on long-acting nitrates for her chest pain and continued on aspirin and statin therapy. Verapamil was discontinued for symptomatic bradycardia.
On CA, it was a right-dominant system with only minor luminal irregularities along a large left anterior descending artery, 20% stenosis of the proximal left circumflex being a medium caliber vessel, and only minor luminal irregularities of a large caliber right coronary artery with no evidence of any other significant disease of the remaining minor arteries (Figures -).
The patient was seen two months after her CA and was still complaining of chest pain occurring daily with exertion, with the discomfort lasting up to 20 minutes. She also reported shortness of breath with exertion and palpitations in the week prior. She had been fully compliant with her bilevel positive airway pressure (BiPAP) treatments. Furthermore, she had been physically active, walking one block and climbing up two flights of stairs without any problems. Unfortunately, she was still smoking 10-