A 66-year-old female visited our dental hospital because of lymphadenopathy on the left side of her neck and swelling of the left maxillary gingiva one month before our first medical examination. She received a diagnosis of periodontitis and lymphadenitis, and the former was relieved by antimicrobial treatment. However, she was referred to our department to undergo a medical examination because a mass was found at the lingual base, and the left neck lymphadenopathy had not improved. An endoscopic examination of the pharynx showed an irregularly elevated lesion on the base of the tongue (). A biopsy of the mass resulted in a pathological diagnosis of p16-positive poorly differentiated squamous cell carcinoma. Right lung metastasis was observed on chest computed tomography (CT) and positron emission tomography- (PET-) CT (), and HPV-positive poorly differentiated squamous cell carcinoma of the oropharyngeal anterior wall (T2N1M1 stage IV) was diagnosed. The patient's blood squamous cell carcinoma antigen level before treatment was 0.7 ng/ml. She had undergone surgery for right breast cancer (pT1aN0M0 stage I) one year ago and had received endocrine therapy. There was nothing important in her family history. She had a history of smoking (20 cigarettes/day for 20 years) and drinking alcohol. We treated her with chemoradiotherapy (CRT). Because in this case, as the pathological diagnosis was HPV-positive squamous cell carcinoma, it was thought that the primary and neck lesions were more likely to be controlled by CRT. Besides, the distant metastasis was only to the right lung and it was a single lesion and small of around 1 cm. Therefore, we thought the lung metastatic lesion could be controlled by video-assisted thoracoscopic surgery (VATS) after local treatment. Actually, we had the experience of such a case before. The planned regimen included two cycles of cisplatin (100 mg/m2 on days 1 and 23) with 66 Gy of radiation in 33 fractions of 2 Gy per fraction beginning on day 1.