A 35-year-old African-American male with schizophrenia and a history of several prior inpatient psychiatric admissions presented to the ED for auditory hallucinations, suicidal ideation, and “locked-up muscle” (sic) after smoking cannabis mixed with haloperidol. He reported crushing 30 mg of haloperidol tablets from an old prescription. He smoked the crushed haloperidol with cannabis to “get high” [sic] the day prior to presenting to the ED; however, we were not able to further clarify his motivation behind adding haloperidol to his cannabis. He denied any synthetic cannabinoid or other substance use. He did not report any comorbid medical illness. The patient was provided a wheelchair in the ED due to difficulty with ambulation; he later fell onto the floor while trying to get out of his wheelchair to use the restroom. His vital signs were notable for a blood pressure of 141/95 mmHg, pulse of 84 per minute, respiratory rate of 18 per minute, oxygen saturation of 99% on room air, and temperature of 98.6 F (37.0°C). He refused any lab work on presentation and did not provide urine for a toxicology screening test. Nevertheless, according to numerous medical records between 2013 and 2020, the patient had consistently reported using marijuana but no other substances. At least eight prior urine toxicology results were consistently positive only for cannabinoids. On physical exam, his arms were maintained in a flexed position and were noted to have increased tone bilaterally. Given his stable vital signs, the presentation was more suggestive of acute dystonia than neuroleptic malignant syndrome. The dystonia resolved within 60 minutes after he was given diphenhydramine 25 mg intramuscularly. On reassessment approximately two hours later, he was able to ambulate without difficulty, and upper extremity muscle tone was normal bilaterally. He was transferred to the Psychiatric Emergency Services (PES) for continued treatment. Further investigation revealed that the present ED visit was taking place two days after the patient had been discharged from