A 64-year-old woman was referred to correct the prosthodontic restoration on the right maxillary first incisor with infraocclusion. This patient had been treated by implant therapy 20 years before. She was in good general health and did not present any contraindication to surgery procedure, but she had a high tobacco consumption, which she had decided to reduce. Clinical examination showed chronic periodontitis, the replacement of the right maxillary first incisor by an implant with infraocclusion, and a crown with a slight palatal position (Fig. ). Soft and hard tissues around the implant and osseointegration were stable. The facial skeletal pattern was normodivergent. The actual implant position was due to 20 years of continuous alveolar growth. Considering the good palatal implant positioning at the time of the surgery, 20 years before, the right axis was kept, without any buccal side effect movement. A new screwed restoration would have been possible, but the prosthetic rehabilitation to compensate for the infraocclusion would have led to a disappointing result, with too long a crown and an incorrect gingival line alignment. For this reason, periodontal treatment was planned first before orthodontic preparation and implant relocation at the right level using the OBS technique.
Orthodontic preparation consisted of teeth alignment excluding implant and a .021x.025 SSW was placed on the maxillary and mandibular arches before surgery. When the alignment phase was completed, infraocclusion on the incisor prosthodontic crown was severely worsened, compared to the incisal edge of the adjacent teeth (Fig. A). Immediately before surgery, an overlay .016 Nickel-Titanium archwire was placed on maxillary teeth, including the implant. (Fig. ).
The OBS procedure was performed on the buccal side with preservation of the implant soft tissue attachment. Immediately after surgery, orthodontic forces were applied. Every 2 weeks (Fig. ), the patient was followed by the orthodontist for traction reactivation. After 2 months of orthodontic traction, the movement