A 35-year-old G7P2 female at 12 weeks gestational age presented to the emergency department with a six-day history of worsening rash and swelling of her right hand and ankle (Figure ). This started at the right fifth finger and progressed to involve the dorsum of the same hand, along with the second to fifth metacarpophalangeal (MCP) joints. There was associated pain throughout and decreased range of motion of the right wrist and hand joints. The patient noted recent chills and body aches but no fever. She had originally seen her family physician two days prior and was prescribed cephalexin and ceftriaxone for a presumptive diagnosis of cellulitis. On a subsequent emergency room visit the next day for no change in the disease course she was prescribed clindamycin, once again with no improvement.
On presentation to the inpatient unit, due to infectious disease, her antibiotics changed to daptomycin and meropenem for broad coverage. Further history included no recent travel, infection, or exposure to pets. She denied insect bites and close contacts with similar symptoms. Her medical history was significant for hypertension, treated with lifestyle changes, and gestational diabetes. Social history was negative for smoking and drug use, and she had no family history of autoimmune disease. There was no history of sexually transmitted infections. Physical examination revealed an edematous, light pink plaque on the right dorsal hand and wrist that spread proximally up her arm with satellite firm, pink papules on the forearm. Numerous similar appearing papules were present on the left forearm. A small lesion was present near her right fifth MCP that had a gray, dusky appearing hue. On her right foot, there was a dark red/tan edematous plaque. Lab results on admission included an unremarkable complete blood count (CBC) and comprehensive metabolic panel (CMP). Differentials considered were broad, and included cellulitis, parvovirus, Lyme disease, disseminated gonococcal infection,