A 32-year-old Caucasian gravida 1 para 0 (G1P0) woman without any significant past medical or surgical history was followed by our department throughout the duration of her pregnancy, which was facilitated by in vitro fertilization. Prior to pregnancy, the patient had regular menstrual periods and cycles lasting 30-32 days on average with a variability of +/- 5 days. Papanicolaou (Pap) smear conducted 5 years prior to pregnancy revealed a low-grade squamous intraepithelial lesion that was negative for human papillomavirus (HPV). A subsequent Pap smear conducted 2 years prior to pregnancy was negative for abnormality. She denied a history of pelvic inflammatory disease (PID), sexually transmitted infections (STIs), tubo-ovarian abscess, colitis, appendicitis, and endometriosis. Despite not having any chronic medical conditions, being a non-smoker, and having a healthy, active lifestyle, the patient had a history of unexplained infertility for which she underwent an extensive medical workup and multiple treatment modalities.
The patient previously used an intrauterine device for contraception, which was removed approximately 4 years prior to this pregnancy. Approximately 2 years prior to the start of pregnancy at her routine gynecologic exam (during which she had her second Pap smear, as noted previously), the patient stated that she was trying to become pregnant. Two weeks prior to this exam, her male partner had an overall normal semen analysis. The patient at this time was provided with prenatal guidance regarding timed intercourse and anticipatory guidance. She was also instructed to take daily prenatal vitamins and docosahexaenoic acid (DHA). Roughly 4 months after this appointment (at this point 8-9 months of actively trying to become pregnant) the patient sought out additional procreative guidance after unsuccessfully conceiving. The patient was advised to use an ovulation indicator, continue timed intercourse, and maintain healthy lifestyle habits. Laboratory testing was also conducted, and the following values were reported at this time: dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA) 7.35 ng/mL, estradiol 48