A 71-year-old African American female with no significant past medical history presented to her primary care physician in September 2020 for progressive swelling in her right parotid region for 3 months associated with a recent onset of dental pain. She denied any previous history of tobacco use or prior radiation exposure. Antibiotics resolved her dental pain without improvement of the right parotid swelling. She was then evaluated by head and neck surgery. Computed tomography (CT) of the head and neck revealed a 1.9 cm heterogeneously enhancing lesion in the anterior, superior superficial parotid gland without any enlarged nodes. She did not have any preoperative facial nerve involvement or lymphadenopathy. She underwent a total parotidectomy with clinically uninvolved margins. The complete facial nerve was dissected free of the neoplasm with gross preservation of function. Postoperatively, she had some weakness in the marginal mandibular branch of the facial nerve, along with weakness in closing her superior palpebral fissure of the right eye. Pathology of resected lesions revealed salivary duct carcinoma that was 1.7 cm in maximum dimension, positive for cytokeratin 7, HER2/neu equivocal 2+, and androgen receptor-positive. The tumor was negative for p40, mucin, estrogen receptor, progesterone receptor, TTF-1, SOX100, mammaglobin, p63, and s-100. HER2/neu was 1+ FISH not amplified. She had no lymphovascular invasion, but perineural invasion was present. Postoperative positron emission tomography (PET) scan before radiation was negative for metastatic disease. The tumor was staged pathologically as T1N0M0 stage I. She received adjuvant radiotherapy incorporating margin positivity with 6600 cGy in 30 fractions to the entire parotid bed and the adjacent nodes with 6000 cGy in 30 fractions. The remainder of her right neck received 5400 cGy in 30 fractions. She completed radiotherapy in January 2021. She developed facial dermatitis and dysgeusia as a result of radiation, but otherwise tolerated therapy. Currently, she is being followed with CT scans every