A 45-year-old female patient presented initially to the primary care clinic with symptoms of dyspnea, cough, and wheezing along with anterior abdominal wall tenderness. She had a medical history significant for bilateral venous insufficiency, smoking, obesity, and bipolar type II disorders. The patient tested negative for coronavirus disease 2019 and was sent home with a provisional diagnosis of viral respiratory infection. Her condition showed mild improvement with conservative supportive treatment.
After four months, the patient presented to the emergency department with complaints of epigastric abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea for the past month. Initial laboratory workup in the emergency department was significant for an elevated creatinine of 1.42 mg/dL, C-reactive protein (CRP) of 6.2 mg/L, and an erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR) of 41 mm/hour. The polymerase chain reaction test for severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 was negative. Before diagnostic imaging, a 2 L bolus of normal saline fluid was administered intravenously followed by maintenance fluid. CT scan of the abdomen and pelvis with contrast was significant for RPF, periaortitis involving the distal aorta and its bilateral common iliac arteries, decreased perfusion of the left kidney with mild hydronephrosis, and obstruction of a portion of the left distal ureter (Figure ). A high-resolution chest CT scan reported multiple small areas of clustered cystic and/or emphysematous changes scattered throughout the lungs and a few ground-glass nodules in the right lung apex.
Interventional radiology was consulted for a percutaneous biopsy of retroperitoneal fibrotic tissue but it was not completed due to a safe window being inaccessible. In addition, urology was consulted due to left hydronephrosis and for intra-ureteral biopsy. X-ray urography with left retrograde pyelogram showed stricture of the left ureter at the distal third region. Therefore, a stent was placed in the left ureter (Figure ). During the procedure, a biopsy could not be obtained due to extrinsic compression of the ureter without intrinsic lesions