The patient was a 32-year-old man who presented to the emergency department with a complaint of lower abdominal pain for one week. His pain was persistent throughout the day and was stabbing in nature. He scored the pain as 7 out of 10 in intensity. It was associated with fever, nausea, and vomiting. There was no history of change in bowel motions or urinary symptoms. His past medical history was remarkable for a peptic ulcer disease. He had not undergone any surgical procedure previously. He was a non-smoker and did not drink alcohol. The family history was non-contributory. Of note, the patient did not have a history of diabetes mellitus, chronic steroid therapy, or any immunodeficiency disorders.
On examination, the patient looked tired and his vital signs revealed a low-grade fever and tachycardia. Abdominal examination showed tenderness in the lower abdomen with evidence of suprapubic mass. No overlying skin changes were noted. The abdomen was soft and lax with no signs of guarding or rigidity. Laboratory investigation revealed a leukocyte count of 14,200/𝜇L and erythrocyte sedimentation rate of 23 mm/hr. Other biochemical investigations, including renal and liver function tests, were within normal limits.
An abdominal ultrasound examination of the patient revealed a spheric collection with poorly defined borders. Subsequently, an abdominal CT scan was performed, which demonstrated a soft tissue mass adjacent to the anterior abdominal wall with an upward track to the umbilicus (Figures , ). Based on the clinical and radiological features, he was diagnosed as having a urachal abscess. A cystourethrogram was performed and revealed no communication with the bladder.
The culture from the obtained specimen of the abscess revealed growth of Staphylococcus aureus. The patient was administered a broad-spectrum intravenous antibiotic therapy, which resulted in clinical improvement with the resolution of the fever. He was then prepared for laparotomy, which confirmed the diagnosis of a urachal abscess. The mass was excised