A 70-year-old man presented with diffuse abdominal pain and the gradual onset of weakness in the preceding 2 months. There was no evidence of hematochezia or melena, with regular bowel movements; the patient referred to rare episodes of orthostatic vertigo that did not affect the quality of his life. No weight loss or loss of appetite was reported. The patient’s medical history included hypertension and diabetes mellitus; he used to smoke around 40 cigarettes per day since he was 20. He received an appendectomy when he was a teenager and thyroidectomy for multinodular goiter but had no family history of GI cancer. Once he was admitted to our hospital, a lab test revealed microcytic anemia, with Hb 7.2 g/dL and hematocrit of 26%. The CEA level was 2.25 ng/mL. A CT scan of the abdomen and pelvis was performed. The scan indicated colonic thickening of the caecum and the ascending colon, with adjacent fat stranding and caliber reduction of the colon. No lymphadenopathy or distant metastasis was reported (T3, N0, M0). Colonoscopy confirmed the presence of a lesion in the ascending colon and the caecum. Biopsies were taken but were not diagnostic. A laparoscopic right hemi-colectomy was performed based on the CT images of the colonic thickening of the caecum and the ascending colon and for the severe anemia. A voluminous mass was found in the caecum, with adhesions between the colon and abdominal wall and the last two ileal loops. The post-surgical course was uneventful, and the patient was discharged without complications 5 days after surgery. A gross examination of the surgical sample revealed a voluminous mass in the right colon, 8 cm in diameter, infiltrating the intestinal wall, with a trans-mural extension reaching the ileum. A histological evaluation showed a carcinoma with a solid architecture, and extensive sampling confirmed the lack of glandular differentiation. The cells displayed monotonous cytological features, with abundant eosinophil cytoplasm and prominent nucleoli.