A 72-years-old Caucasian male with a history of atrial fibrillation, arterial hypertension came to our Department. He referred to have been a heavy smoker for over 40 years, no drugs abuse has been declared. His genetic and familiar history are negative for significant pathologies. He underwent a middle lobectomy in our center in 2011 for lung cancer. The patient returned to our attention for the detection of two synchronous neoplasms: a moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma of the esophagus (pT1b N0) and a pulmonary adenocarcinoma (pT3 N0). In December 2020, after neoadjuvant radio and chemotherapy, the patient underwent subtotal esophagectomy sec. Ivor Lewis with intrathoracic anastomosis and right lower lobectomy in posterolateral thoracotomy. In February 2021, he returned to our Unit due to the worsening of his general clinical conditions.
The patient followed a diagnostic check with a chest X-ray and then a chest-abdomen CT with contrast (), which led to the evidence of anastomotic dehiscence with abundant spreading of food material into the pleural space (). A chest tube was placed to stabilize the patient's clinical condition. Antibiotic therapy was set to treat the pleural infection, and abundant daily pleural washes with saline solution were performed for about 20 days. After the infection had resolved, a minimally invasive treatment with the placement of an Eso-SPONGE® was used.
The positioning procedure of the device is as follows. The patient undergoes general anesthesia with endotracheal intubation. The nose-gastric tube is removed, and an exploratory esophagogastroduodenoscopy () is performed to verify the level and diameter of dehiscence. Simultaneously, with the help of a biopsy clamp, a curettage of the area around the fistula and of the neoformed cavity is performed to revitalize the tissues and to remove the fibrin (). The endoscope is covered with a rubber over-tube that is placed under video control at the entrance of the dehiscence. Once the endoscope is extracted, the Eso-SPONGE® (