The 63-year-old female never-smoker was admitted to our department for the first time on December 23, 2015, due to cough and dyspnea for over 20 days. Her chest computed tomography (CT) showed space-occupying lesions in the right hilum and enlarged lymph nodes in the mediastinum, atelectasis of the right lung, massive pleural effusion in the right side, and multiple nodules in both lungs (). Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) showed gadolinium-enhanced multiple abnormal intensification foci in the brain which were considered to be multiple metastatic tumors (). The serum concentration of the carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) was 18.75 ng/mL. Right thoracic closed drainage and pleural biopsy were performed, resulting in a total of 1,500 mL yellow pleural fluid drained out () and a pleural fluid CEA of 17.55 ng/mL.
The histology of the pathological changes confirmed by both pleural biopsy () and fiberoptic bronchofiberscopy biopsy () was adenocarcinoma of the lung. Then the EGFR mutation status was investigated and the result showed a point mutation at exon 21 (L858R). One month later, the patient underwent a systemic bone imaging examination, which revealed abnormal bone metabolism in the middle of the left femur (). Bilateral femoral MRI showed bilateral femoral shaft metastatic tumor.
The patient received gefitinib and intermittent zoledronic acid for bone metastases until 20 months, and then MRI showed that BMs which had disappeared and shrunk () after gefitinib were progressing again. The cancer lesions in lungs of the patient were significantly reduced () after gefitinib and did not progress during the treatment period. Systemic bone imaging showed that the metabolic activity of hypermetabolic lesions in the middle part of the left femur was significantly decreased after gefitinib treatment () and the patient had never been affected by lower limb discomfort.
The patient received osimertinib for 38 months which was recommended after T790M acquisition confirmed by liquid biopsy after brain MRI showed progression of the disease on