A 77-year-old woman was attended to our hospital for evaluation of an esophageal submucosal tumor (SMT) and complained of progressive dysphagia for more than 2 months. She had first noted intermittent difficulty in swallowing solids 2 months before the visit. Her symptoms worsened progressively over the past 1 month with difficulty in swallowing both solids and liquids. She had no significant weight loss during this time period. Her past medical history included a right buccal mass that had undergone resection 1 year ago. She had no history of any immunosuppressive disease, alcohol abuse, or smoking. The findings of physical examinations showed no abnormalities, and the superficial lymph nodes, liver, and spleen were not palpable. Laboratory tests revealed normal levels of blood routine, liver function, kidney function, and blood electrolytes. No hepatitis B surface antigen and hepatitis C virus antibodies were detected. No elevation of tumor markers or autoimmune antibodies was observed. Upper gastrointestinal endoscopy revealed a large rounded esophageal submucosal mass covered by normal mucosa, located at the lower esophagus, 30–34 cm from the central incisors (). Endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) showed a well-demarcated hypoechoic mass chiefly located in the esophageal wall (), clearly separated from the surrounding adventitia. Findings on chest contrast-enhanced computed tomography (CT) revealed a well-defined homogeneous mass in the lower esophageal region, with size 18 mm × 28 mm (). Despite her age, in consultation with the patient, we chose and performed an ESD by injection-and-cut technique to completely remove the large esophageal lesion to allow for accurate histological diagnosis.
ESD was performed for diagnostic and treatment purposes. In this case, we used ESD-derived technique of submucosal tunneling endoscopic resection (STER). The submucosal injection was performed from the oral side at a distance of 3–5 cm from the tumor. Fluids were injected beneath the mucosa by a submucosal injection needle through the endoscopic channel to create a cushion. The fluid was a normal saline solution combined with 1:10