A 66-year-old man with a past medical history significant for GERD, hypothyroidism, previous head and neck cancer status, post-resection history chemotherapy, and radiation presented to the hospital for evaluation of headaches. The patient reported waking from sleep with a pounding headache two to three times per month over a 6-month period. The headaches were associated with palpitations, dizziness, and diaphoresis. He denied any complaints of blurred vision, slurred speech, weakness, numbness, or tingling of his extremities, nausea, and vomiting. He reported no complaints of shortness of breath, cough, nasal congestion, fatigue, or diarrhea. His pain was reportedly resolved by two to three tablets of ibuprofen 200 mg. While his headaches did not significantly impact his activities of daily living, they did prompt discussion with his primary care physician. An outpatient MRI brain was performed, which revealed findings suspicious of CVST. Thus, he was sent to the emergency department for further evaluation.
Three months prior to admission, the patient was tested for SARS-CoV-2 virus infection from a potential exposure at work. He tested positive and exhibited symptoms of cough, headache, and nasal congestion. He never exhibited significant shortness of breath or pleuritic chest pain. His symptoms improved with basic medical management. On his current admission, he was again tested for COVID-19 and tested positive. He denied a history of smoking, alcohol abuse, or recreational drug use. He had a past medical history of cancer on the base of the left tongue involving the left tonsils and left neck lymph nodes which was treated by surgery, radiation, and chemotherapy 11 years prior. He never presented any signs or symptoms of recurrence. Family history was not significant. His body mass index at the time of admission was 28 kg/m2, vital signs were within normal limits, and he was saturating well on room air. Physical examination including complete neurological examination was within normal