A 60-year-old African American male came into our outpatient otorhinolaryngology clinic presenting with a painless mass that had been progressively enlarging for the past 10 months on the right side of the floor of the mouth. His main complaints were dysphagia, dysarthria, and oral swelling. Significant medical history included prostate cancer, hyperlipidemia, benign hypertension, type II diabetes mellitus, and tobacco use. Clinical evaluation revealed an intraoral swelling in the right floor of the mouth with smooth benign appearing mucosa. A computed tomographic scan with contrast (Figures , ) revealed a smoothly marginated mass within the right sublingual space resulting in a mass effect of the oral cavity musculature, with mild hypertrophy of the palatine tonsils. The bilateral submandibular and parotid glands were unremarkable with evidence of pathological cervical chain lymphadenopathy bilaterally. Retropharyngeal soft tissues appeared within normal limits.
Given the clinical presentation, the decision was made to surgically remove the lipoma from the floor of the mouth mass. The location of the mass prompted concern for the risk of damaging the right hypoglossal nerve. To detect and avoid damage to the right hypoglossal nerve, nerve monitoring was utilized during the operation. During the operation, far-field stimulation of the hypoglossal nerve was appreciated. As stimulation of all areas around the base of lipoma did not receive any strong stimulation at any time, the operative field was deemed distant to the right hypoglossal nerve, and dissection of the mass was performed using a combination of blunt and sharp dissection through the sublingual mucosa. The mass was noted to be yellow, homogenous, and encapsulated without invasion into the surrounding musculature and tissues. The excised mass was measured to be 8.5 x 4.0 x 1.0 cm. Hemostasis was achieved, and the incision was closed. Under microscopy, histological features of the mass were constant with features of a simple lipoma without invasion of the surrounding tissues (Figure , ). The patient tolerated surgery well, and