We present the case of a 43-year-old woman, with a known history of classic migraine for the last 20 years, who presented to the ED with a severe headache. Her pain started four days prior to her presentation and progressively worsened in severity. She described the headache as persistent generalized pain, compared with the pulsatile nature of her previous migraine headaches. The headache was worse on awakening and bending. Unlike her usual episodes of migraine, the headache did not improve with the use of oral sumatriptan. She scored the pain as eight out of 10 in severity and it was awakening the patient from sleep. The headache was associated with nausea and recurrent episodes of vomiting. There was no history of preceding head trauma. The patient did not report any history of photophobia, fever, weakness, or loss of consciousness. The patient visited several outpatient clinics who managed her as having tension headache and offered symptomatic treatment only.
She reported that the current episode of headache was different in character and severe than her usual episodes of migraine headaches. Of note, the patient was using sumatriptan for the last eight years. Her past medical history is not significant for any health condition other than migraine. She has not undergone any surgical operation in the past. Her family history is significant for classic migraines in her mother and sister. She is a non-smoker and does not drink alcohol.
Upon examination, the patient looked in pain and distress. She was drowsy but was fully oriented. Her vital signs on presentation were as follows: pulse rate of 114 bpm, blood pressure of 132/78 mmHg, respiratory rate of 18 bpm, temperature of 36.7℃, and oxygen saturation of 99% on room air. Neurological examination revealed grossly intact cranial nerves, no focal motor or sensory deficits, and normal cerebellar examinations. Funduscopic examination showed normal findings. The cardiorespiratory examination was unremarkable. There was no neck stiffness and the meningeal signs were not present. Her laboratory findings