A 59-year-old male presented to the general practitioner because of painful ribs. Imaging, performed to rule out pulmonary embolism at the Emergency Department, showed no cause for his symptoms, but accidentally revealed enlarged lymph nodes in the neck. Histopathology obtained from a lymph node biopsy indicated a metastasis of an poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma. The node was almost entirely made up of an epithelial tumor which formed tubular structures. The tumor cells had ample eosinophilic cytoplasm and enlarged polymorphic anisochromatic and elucidated nuclei often with a prominent eosinophilic nucleolus. Both mitoses and apoptosis were observed. At the tumor border vascular invasion was present. Additional imaging examinations revealed a large sinonasal process (). Subsequently, the patient was diagnosed with a primary SDC originating from the sinonasal cavity based on additional clinical information, histomorphology, and immunohistochemistry. Due to cervical and mediastinal lymph node metastases (T3N2bM0 disease), the patient was referred to our hospital, a tertiary referral center for salivary gland cancer, to discuss systemic treatment options. The tumor cells were positive for androgen receptor (AR) (see ). Human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2neu) status was assessed in accordance with the American Society of Clinical Oncology/College of American Pathologists (ASCO/CAP) guidelines for the evaluation of breast cancer (). Immunohistochemistry (IHC) was inconclusive; IHC score: 2+, therefore fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) was performed which indicated no amplification, resulting in a negative HER2neu status. Additional molecular analysis was performed on a lymph node metastasis to detect other potential actionable targets for future systemic treatment options. The assay used for molecular analysis was the TruSight Oncology 500 (Illumina), which is a next-generation sequencing assay that enables comprehensive genomic profiling of 532 genes, furthermore it measures microsatellite instability and tumor mutational burden. The molecular analysis showed no clinically relevant mutations, there was no microsatellite instability, and the total tumor mutational burden was 1.6 mutations per megab