A 40-year-old male is presented with dyspnea and cough 2 months before workup in another center. He came to our center in Babol University of Medical Sciences in April 2019, 6 months after his initial workup in the primary center. In the initial evaluation, the patient was a middle-aged man without a history of any disease or family history of a disease. He was a smoker and did not drink alcohol. On first physical examination, he had crackles in the base of the left lung with other findings being unremarkable. In para-clinical evaluation, on chest x-ray () and chest computed tomography (CT) scan, there was evidence of bronchiectasis and left lung lower lobe collapse. Coming from the Middle East, with all the symptoms described, the first differential diagnosis for the patient was tuberculosis (TB). Sputum evaluation for mycobacterium tuberculosis was negative and bronchoscopy and bronchoalveolar lavage were done for the patient and the pathology revealed positive Ziehl-Neelsen staining for TB but negative QuantiFERON. Considering the clinical setting and high probability of tuberculosis, treatment with anti-TB medications was started for the patient.
After 2 months of treatment, although his symptoms had improved a bit, he reported back to the hospital with increased dyspnea and weakness and easy fatigability. On physical examination, he had muffled heart sounds and so echocardiography was done for the patient, which revealed mild pericardial effusion (PE) and normal left ventricle (LV) and right ventricle (RV) size and function. Anti-TB medications were continued and anti-inflammatory drugs added. His symptoms did not improve over the following 2 months and he had to be admitted again with worsening dyspnea. On evaluation, he had mild to moderate PE and mild RV enlargement. There was no evidence for constrictive pericarditis on echocardiography. D-dimer was requested for the patient which was reported to be high. Pulmonary computed tomography angiography was done for the patient which showed no evidence