Our patient, heretofore referred to as “Mr. A,” was a 26-year-old male diagnosed with CCHS, generalized convulsive epilepsy, and a history of a nonverbal processing disorder. Mr. A was diagnosed with CCHS at birth, and his development was greatly impacted by this diagnosis. Mr. A was ventilator dependent 16-18 hours per day. In addition, Mr. A was diagnosed with epilepsy as a teenager and was on antiepileptic medications with mood-stabilizing benefits including divalproex 250 mg every morning and 500 mg every night and lamotrigine 400 mg every night. He was also on clonidine 0.3 mg patch every three days for hypertension and hyperactivity. Psychiatric interview performed by the authors determined diagnoses of specific phobia (blood-injection injury subtype), along with history of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder and history of nonverbal learning disorder. We administered a Beck Depression Inventory (BDI) at intake, and the patient scored in the “minimal” range on this measure. As depression is frequently comorbid with chronic medical illness, it is possible that the patient experienced underlying depressive symptoms that were not captured at intake, as the treating psychiatrist later diagnosed him with unspecified depression.
At the time he presented for intake, he and his family reported poorly controlled anxiety symptoms that were interfering with his quality of life and medical management of his care. Specifically, it had been 26 months since his last bronchoscopy and Mr. A was refusing this procedure due to fears he had developed about anesthesia. Mr. A had completed over 20 bronchoscopies throughout his life, and yet in the preceding few months, he developed a phobia to the anesthesia used in these procedures. We hypothesized that this phobia was due to his growing and yet perhaps limited understanding of the pathophysiology of his own illness. Mr. A expressed worries that he would stop breathing and never wake up and became anxious about completing future procedures. His