We present the case of a 66-year-old man who presented to the emergency department with worsening low back pain. He reported that he started to experience this pain in the last year, but it has been gradually increasing in severity. The pain was non-radiating, constant, and was noted related to posture or movement. The patient could not identify any exacerbating factors for his pain, but he stated that the standard analgesic medications become not fully effective for his pain. He rated the pain as 7 out of 10 in severity and this pain started to affect his quality of daily living. There was no history of preceding trauma. The pain was not associated with weakness or numbness in the lower extremities and there were no disturbances in the urinary or fecal continence. The patient did not experience weight loss, decreased appetite, or night sweats. He reported visiting several outpatient clinics for his pain, which was diagnosed as mechanical low back pain. He was prescribed several oral non-steroidal inflammatory drugs and underwent several sessions of physiotherapy.
The past medical history of the patient was remarkable for long-standing hypertension, diabetes mellitus, and dyslipidemia. He was receiving perindopril 10 mg once daily, atorvastatin 20 mg once daily, and metformin 800 mg twice daily. However, his conditions were not well-controlled due to non-adherence to lifestyle modification and pharmacologic treatments. He had a history of laparoscopic cholecystectomy performed after an attack of acute cholecystectomy. He was a smoker with a 30 pack-year history of smoking. He did not drink alcohol. He worked as a school teacher. His family history was non-contributory.
Upon examination, the patient was alert, conscious, and oriented. He looked in mild distress due to the pain. His vital signs were as follows: pulse rate of 90 bpm, blood pressure of 146/86 mmHg, respiratory rate of 13 bpm, and temperature of 37.1℃. Examination of the lumbar spine revealed tenderness along the vertebrae with mild restriction in