We present a 56-year-old white male presenting with a history of acute myocardial infarction with high tobacco and alcohol consumption. The patient refers to risky sexual behaviors, but no use of IV drugs. He went to an ophthalmology consultation because of a progressive decrease in visual acuity (VA) of the right eye (RE), in the last few months, without pain or inflammatory signs. Fundoscopy revealed dispersed preretinal hemorrhage and yellowish exudates. CMV retinitis was established as the main diagnostic hypothesis in the context of a possible HIV infection. HIV serology was requested, and a positive result was found. The patient was referred for an Internal Medicine consultation. While waiting for an appointment, he presented a rapidly progressive worsening of his VA and resorted to the Emergency department. Upon observation, he maintained alterations in the retinography of the RE, with worsening of pre-retinal hemorrhage and yellowish exudates, with no other findings (Figure ). The left eye was not affected (Figure ).
He was admitted to the Internal Medicine department, assuming the diagnostic hypothesis of CMV retinitis as the first manifestation of HIV infection and starting IV ganciclovir empirically.
An etiological study was performed, showing positive CMV serology for acute infection with positive IgM and IgG and confirmation of HIV type 1 infection by the western blot technique, with a viral load of 13076 copies/mL and decreased CD4+ T lymphocytes (155cel/μL). Confirmed CMV and HIV-1 infection, with criteria of AIDS, in stage C, according to the classification proposed by CDC Atlanta for patients infected with HIV. He started HAART with tenofovir, emtricitabine and efavirenz, and Pneumocystis jirovecii pneumonia prophylaxis. Other opportunistic infections, as well as manifestations of CMV infection in other organs, were ruled out. The sexual partner's HIV infection was excluded. The patient was discharged maintaining the therapy mentioned above.
Follow-up consultation revealed good therapeutic adherence, with the slow recovery of