Thirty-one-year-old Middle Eastern male presented at the prosthodontic clinic in a private office in Abha, Saudi Arabia, with a chief complaint“ I need to have a better smile.” The patient had no contributory past medical history except smoking a pack of cigarettes daily. Extraoral examination revealed no abnormality including TMJ, lymph nodes, facial symmetry, and lateral profile. Intraorally, the patient had multiple old discolored composite restorations in the anterior area in both arches with recurrent caries underneath. The patient had wear of the maxillary anterior teeth and had multiple missing teeth with deficient alveolar ridges. He also had a large old restoration on #22 with recurrent caries that caused recession of the gingiva apical to the tooth. Additionally, large old restorations on multiple posterior teeth were noted with periapical radiolucency on tooth #36 related to an old root canal treatment. The patient also had midline diastema and retroclined maxillary anterior teeth with a normal molar relationship. The anterior tooth malposition was expressed by the patient as a concern when he smiles. Periodontal status of anterior teeth was fair with minimal bone loss. However, localized horizontal bone loss was evident in the posterior area, especially in the maxillary right posterior area with maxillary sinus pneumatization ().
Diagnosis included pseudo-class III malocclusion accompanied by dental wear of maxillary anterior teeth and midline diastema. He also had recurrent caries related to the old defective composite restorations in both maxillary and mandibular anterior teeth. Additionally, the patient had recurrent caries on multiple maxillary and mandibular posterior teeth with periapical radiolucency related to tooth #36. After diagnosis and treatment plan presentation, the patient agreed on extracting tooth #22 as it was deemed unrestorable. As the patient wanted to improve his smile and correct his malocclusion with no orthodontic intervention, replacing his anterior teeth with full-coverage lithium disilicate restorations was planned. The missing teeth #14 and #15 also were going