A sixty-one-year-old man with a significant two-year past medical history of bilateral lower extremity weakness and a left parasellar meningioma presented with anorexia, intermittent dysphagia, and early satiety with intermittent nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea from which he had been suffering for the past three months. During this time, he experienced a 20-pound unintentional weight loss. He was not taking any medications known to cause peripheral neuropathy; additionally, he reported a 20 pack/year smoking history and denied alcohol or illicit substance use.
Prior to admission, in January 2016, he had undergone extensive workup for similar symptoms of abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting, and dysphagia. The resulting workup included a CT of the chest, abdomen, and pelvis that demonstrated a fatty infiltrative change in the liver and a kidney, ureter, and bladder X-ray that showed a nonobstructive abdominal gas pattern with no dilated bowel loops or masses identified. An esophagogastroduodenoscopy done in March 2016 demonstrated dysphagia likely secondary to underlying neurologic issues, along with a small hiatal hernia, and an MRI that June revealed an unchanged left middle cranial fossa mass consistent with meningioma.
Upon presentation in July 2016, our patient reported bilateral lower extremity pain present over the past six months, which had been attributed to distal axonal motor neuropathy by electromyogram and nerve conduction studies by his outpatient neurologist. He characterized his pain as alternating between throbbing or shooting up his legs, and that he had been started on pregabalin six months prior with some amelioration of his symptoms. Oxcarbazepine had been recently added to his medication, with some results. He also reported weakness in both his feet since receiving radiation therapy for meningioma two years prior, requiring the use of a walker to ambulate.
In the emergency department, his creatinine was elevated to 1.31 mg/dL from a baseline of 0.9 mg/dL, and troponins were elevated threefold with a normal EK