A 77-year-old Japanese man presented with a follicular thyroid tumor, and the blood thyroglobulin level was 1800 ng/ml. He had no medical history or medications, but his mother and brother had history of colorectal carcinoma and prostate carcinoma. He had smoked three cigarettes for 3 years, and he did not consume alcohol regularly. He received right thyroid lobectomy, and the pathological examination showed no malignant findings such as vascular invasion or capsular invasion. The thyroglobulin level decreased to 14 ng/ml postoperatively. Follow-up at our hospital was discontinued.
Nine years after the operation, he presented to our hospital again with numbness of the right leg and difficulty of walk. On examination, weakness of the right lower limbs was observed but no mass was palpable on the lower back and lower limbs. CT showed a tumor 90 mm in size from the lumbar spine to the sacrum, causing spinal cord compression (Fig. ). Blood tests showed that the thyroglobulin level was increased to 11,600 ng/ml. Ultrasonography of thyroid showed a 14 mm iso-echoic mass in the residual left lobe suggesting follicular tumor. We diagnosed him with thyroid cancer with bone metastases. External beam radiotherapy (39 Gy/13 Fr) was performed on the bone metastases, followed by total thyroidectomy and radioactive iodine therapy (RAI; 131-I 100 mCi).
The pathology of the residual thyroid gland was follicular tumor. Although we examined the whole thyroid, including the previous specimen of right lobe, we could not find any malignant features such as vascular invasion or capsular invasion. However, we diagnosed follicular thyroid carcinoma owing to the presence of bone metastasis. Scintigraphy of RAI therapy showed high accumulation on the right pelvis and the thyroid bed (Fig. ). The numbness in the right thigh and weakness of the lower limbs improved after the start of treatment, and the thyroglobulin level decreased to 3940 ng/ml. However, 4 months after RAI therapy, the symptoms of numbness and weakness in the lower extremities