A 59-year-old male with a past medical history of hypertension, hyperlipidemia, chronic pain taking opioids, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, gastroesophageal disease, and recently diagnosed coronary artery disease status post stent placement in the setting of acute coronary syndrome, presented for a follow-up cardiology appointment after a recent visit to the emergency department for coughing spells and right-sided flank pain. Of note, eight months prior, the patient was found to have critical stenosis of the distal right coronary artery when he was admitted to the hospital with acute coronary syndrome and was treated with percutaneous coronary intervention and medical management. His medical therapy included guideline therapy of atorvastatin, lisinopril, metoprolol succinate, and dual antiplatelet therapy consisting of aspirin and ticagrelor initially and changed to clopidogrel during outpatient follow-up due to cost. The patient had multiple coughing spells secondary to chronic obstructive pulmonary disease exacerbations before his presentation of flank pain. He had computed tomography (CT) imaging of the abdomen that revealed a 12 × 4.5 × 12 cm hematoma within the rectus sheath musculature (Figure ) and was discharged with advice to follow up on conservative management.
His aspirin was stopped, and he continued clopidogrel only on his medication review after the ED visit. He also met with his primary care physician during which ultrasound imaging revealed a decreasing hematoma of 7 × 2 × 5 cm (Figure ).
During his primary care visit, his COPD treatment was optimized, and he was continued on conservative management for the resolving hematoma. During follow-up with his cardiologist, there was minimal ecchymosis, as compared with the ecchymosis that prompted his initial presentation to the emergency department. His lisinopril was also changed to losartan, and he was advised on the benefits of vaping cessation. The hematoma completely resolved, and he is solely treated with aspirin therapy. He is closely followed by his primary care physician and cardiologist and has not had any recurrence or bleeding for almost 18 months since the development of