A 27-year-old male patient with no significant past medical history reported using anabolic steroids for almost 1 month to augment his gym performance. He was taking the following supplements: drostanolone, testosterone, and stanozol. Three months later, he endorsed symptoms of fatigue, diffuse abdominal pain with yellow tinge to his conjunctivae as well as pale stools and dark urine. He visited a local facility where he was found to have cholestatic liver injury. Family history was negative for kidney or liver diseases. Social history was negative for alcohol or tobacco use, intravenous drug abuse, tattoos, history of blood transfusions or high-risk sexual behavior. Medication history included the use of levocetirizine for allergies but no other chronic medication use. The liver injury was attributed to the anabolic steroids he took. He was treated with oral steroids and subsequently developed acute kidney injury requiring initiation of dialysis.
One month later, he was transferred to our facility for continuity of management. On physical examination, he was alert and oriented to time, place, and person. There was evidence of diffuse jaundice and scleral icterus. Abdomen was soft with tenderness noted in the epigastric region. There were multiple bleeding skin excoriations noted. Other system examinations were normal. Initial laboratory test results are summarized in .
He was diagnosed with anabolic steroid-induced liver injury and was slowly tapered off steroids (they were stopped after a 2-week course).
His bilirubin levels remained static. His kidney function initially improved, and dialysis was stopped. However, 2 weeks into his admission, his kidney function started to gradually worsen again. At this stage, a kidney biopsy was performed and showed diffuse acute tubular injury and the presence of intracellular pigmented material and multifocal casts. Hall’s staining for bile highlighted the bile casts. There was minimal tubular atrophy and interstitial fibrosis (, )
He was eventually restarted on intermittent hemodialysis. His bilirubin levels remained elevated throughout his