A 55-year-old man with a history of atrial fibrillation and smoking but without a family history of stroke was admitted to our hospital with a 5-hour history of left limb weakness and speech difficulties. The heart rhythm was uneven, and the first heart tone was neither strong nor weak. He had mixed aphasia, eye gaze to the right, shallow left nasal and labial groove, mouth angle slanted to the right, left limb muscle strength grade 1, positive left side pathological signs, and National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale (NIHSS) score of 16 points. Emergency brain computed tomography (CT) showed a large cerebral infarction in the right frontal temporal parietal lobe. Chest CT revealed pulmonary edema and double lung inflammation.
There was a need to recanalize because of cerebrovascular occlusion, and the family members of the patient agreed to undergo endovascular interventional therapy. After successful right femoral artery puncture, the angiography guidewire could not pass through the aortic arch (Fig. A). 5F pigtail angiography showed that there was no development of the aortic arch or vessels above the arch. Considering the vascular variation, we performed a right radial artery puncture. Cerebral angiography was performed again and aortic arch interruption was clearly diagnosed (Fig. B). The right internal carotid artery was occluded (Fig. C), and the posterior communicating artery was opened. Considering the possibility of cardiogenic embolism, a middle catheter was used for thrombus aspiration of the right internal carotid artery, and a dark red thrombus was removed. Angiography showed that the right middle cerebral artery, right anterior cerebral artery trunk and distal branches were clearly visible (Fig. D), no luminal stenosis was found, modified thrombolysis in cerebral infarction score forward blood flow was grade 3, and the operation was successful.
No hemorrhage was found on brain CT immediately after the operation and on postoperative day 1. Treatment to improve circulation, anticoagulation, control ventricular rate and anti-infection were administered. Unfortunately, oxygen saturation decreased on postoperative day 3, and he underwent