A 36-year-old female presented to the urology department with a two-month history of right-sided abdominal pain and backache. She denied haematuria or any other urinary or gastrointestinal symptoms. On retrospective review, she admitted to experiencing skin flushing once a week and palpitations and hot sweats but denied diarrhoeal symptoms. She was otherwise fit and well, and her only past medical history was of long-standing migraines for which she took zolmitriptan. She had never smoked and had no family history of renal or other neuroendocrine tumours. On examination, she had a palpable and minimally tender right-sided mass.
An ultrasound and subsequent computed tomography (CT) scan were arranged, which revealed a 14 cm mass arising from the upper pole of the right kidney (Fig. ). The tumour was abutting, but not invading the liver, and no evidence of metastatic spread was seen, either in the liver or elsewhere. Pre-operative blood workup revealed normal renal and liver function and mild normochromic anaemia.
The patient then underwent an open right radical nephrectomy. The operative findings were of a large 14 cm right upper pole tumour abutting the liver but with a clear plane between the liver and the kidney. After the removal of the right kidney with tumour, the liver was inspected and found to have more than 10 small lesions throughout the anterior surface occupying all of the visible liver segments. Most were less than 5 mm in diameter, but one was larger, measuring 3 cm in size. One liver lesion was sent for fresh frozen section, and an intra-operative diagnosis of liver metastasis was made. Owing to the large number of metastasis and their distribution throughout the liver, they were felt to be unresectable, and the operation was concluded with only the right radical nephrectomy performed.
Post-operatively, the patient made a good recovery and was discharged after five days in the hospital without significant complications.
Histopathological examination of the specimen found that the