We present the case of a 67-year-old man who presented to the emergency department with chest pain of three hours duration. He described the pain as pressure-like and was central in a location with no radiation. The pain started suddenly and remained constant. It was associated with sweating, palpitation, nausea, and vomiting. The pain was not relieved by simple analgesia medications. Further, it was exacerbated by exertion. The pain was not related to posture or respiration. He rated the pain as 8 out of 10 in severity. There was no change in urinary or bowel habits. The patient reported no history of anorexia, weight change, or fever.
The past medical history was remarkable for hypertension, diabetes mellitus, dyslipidemia, and stable angina. The patient underwent percutaneous coronary intervention five years ago. He remained symptom-free following the procedure. His medications included captopril 25 mg, metformin 1000 mg, aspirin 75 mg, clopidogrel 75 mg, and atorvastatin 20 mg. He was on regular follow-up visits with the cardiology team with no recent changes in his medications. The past surgical history was remarkable for open appendectomy. He was a retired school teacher. He never consumed alcohol and had a smoking history of 25 pack-years.
Upon examination, the patient appeared sick. He was not in respiratory distress. He was not pale, jaundiced, or cyanosed. His vital signs were a temperature of 36.8℃, pulse rate of 110 bpm, blood pressure of 128/82 mmHg, and respiratory rate of 14 bpm. Cardiac examination revealed a normal S1 and S2 with no added sounds or murmurs. Respiratory examination revealed normal vesicular breathing throughout both lung fields. Abdominal examination revealed a soft and lax abdomen with epigastric tenderness. The electrocardiograph revealed a normal sinus rhythm with normal ST segments. The patient received soluble aspirin, clopidogrel, and sublingual nitroglycerin without clinical improvement. Both troponin-I and creatinine kinase enzymes were not elevated. The other basic laboratory investigation was