A 32-year-old male presented with a sudden-onset headache accompanied by articulation disorder, left-sided weakness, and tinnitus in the left ear. There was no history of trauma or common risk factors of cerebrovascular disease, including hypertension, diabetes, coronary heart disease, hypercholesterolemia, and smoking. In addition, there was no notable family history. Ultrasonography of cervical artery showed membrane echo floating in the V1 to V2 segments of the left VA, the diameter of the true lumen was 0.9 mm, the diameter of the false lumen was 3.7 mm, and no blood flow signal was detected at the distal end of the left V2 segment. His condition suddenly worsened after 20 hours, showing convulsions that lasted for approximately 7 minutes, followed by a decreased level of consciousness. The patient was transferred from a primary stroke center to our hospital after 5.5 hours of symptom aggravation. On admission, the patient had clonic limb convulsions, impaired consciousness of the Glasgow Coma Scale score of 9, and a National Institute of Health Stroke Scale score of 19 was recorded. Noncontrast computed tomography revealed early signs of acute cerebral infarction in the left cerebellar hemisphere and the left thalamus; a hyperdense BA sign was found also found (Fig. ). The time of onset was more than 4.5 hours, so no intravenous thrombolysis was performed.
Cerebral digital subtraction angiography (DSA) with conscious sedation revealed the V1 to V2 segment dissection of the left VA. There was no contrast agent filling at the distal of the V2 segment. DSA via the right VA revealed occlusion of the middle portion of the BA and V4 segment of the left VA. The American Society of Interventional and Therapeutic Neuroradiology and Society of Interventional Radiology grade was 0 (Fig. ).
The cause of this patient is arterial to arterial embolism caused by arterial dissection. Considering these findings, endovascular treatment was as follows: a 6-French guiding catheter was introduced through a