A 25-year-old Afro-American male was referred to the Department of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery by his family doctor because of recurrent episodes of facial paresthesia. These episodes spontaneously started 3 months prior and were observed for the first time after severe alcohol consumption. They could develop any time during the day, but mostly occurred during meals and long conversations. The paresthesia was reported bilaterally in the distribution area of the mandibular nerve, particularly the mental and auriculotemporal nerve. No pain or hypoesthesia was described. He did not have recent dental treatment. These complaints impeded his daily life and professional activities due to concentration problems. A few weeks earlier, he experienced hypoesthesia in the left little finger, left foot, and the medial side of the left wrist for approximately 1 week. These symptoms were often encountered in the past, but never lasted as long as 1 week. The family doctor prescribed corticosteroids, but this did not improve the symptoms.
The patient's medical history included heterozygote sickle cell trait (HbAS) and alpha-thalassemia minor, for which he was scheduled for regular routine follow-ups with his hematologist. He had a history of smoking (2 pack-years). He had experienced tinnitus of unknown etiology for more than 4 years. In addition, the patient followed up regularly with a cardiologist for a second-degree atrioventricular block type 1. At 21 years old, he was diagnosed with HNPP. Genetic analysis of PMP22 confirmed deletion of the chromosome 17p11.2 region. Electromyography (EMG) of the upper and lower limbs showed multifocal demyelinating anomalies with diminished sensory and motor conduction velocity. In this regard, he occasionally encountered transient episodes of muscle weakness and hypoesthesia in the arms and legs, as mentioned earlier.
Upon clinical examination, the trigeminal and facial nerves were normal. Symptoms could not be elicited. There were no clinical signs of a disorder in the temporo-mandibular joint, and further clinical