A 63-year-old female with no relevant medical history underwent upper gastrointestinal endoscopy for screening. She neither smoked nor drank alcohol and had no family history of malignancy. The patient's H. pylori serology result (IgG < 3) and fecal H. pylori antigen were negative. The patient had not undergone H. pylori eradication therapy.
Endoscopy revealed a 5 mm poorly demarcated pale-red elevated lesion with a slight depression at the top against the background of a nonatrophic H. pylori-negative mucosa (). The demarcation line of the elevated lesion was also unclear under narrow-band imaging, but the swollen glandular structure of the elevated portion was clearly observed (). The biopsy results of the elevated lesion confirmed that it was SRCC. As the lesion was small and neither thickened nor hard, it was diagnosed as intramucosal carcinoma. We finally assumed the lesion to be intramucosal gastric cancer composed of SRCC with 0-IIa + IIc according to the Paris classification; thus, endoscopic submucosal dissection was performed.
The resected specimen measured 28 × 18 mm and the lesion 8 × 5 mm. Histopathological investigations revealed signet-ring cell invasion at the tip of the elevated lesion and in the surrounding lamina propria. Layered cancer cells were mainly present at the height of the glandular neck zone; none were detected in the deep portion of the mucosa. In the areas where cancer cells were present, the foveolar epithelium of the surface layer showed mild hyperplasia and dilation of the intervening part between the crypts. However, there was no erosion of the surface epithelium, and no signs of direct tumor cell exposure on the surface. Hence, it was confirmed as a flat-elevated lesion proliferating within the mucosa with negative lymphovascular invasion and clear resection margins ().
In the background mucosa surrounding the lesion, immunohistochemistry by anti-α-smooth muscle actin revealed thin muscular bundles in the lamina propria. Fibromuscular obliteration extended from the muscularis propria to the lamina propria,