The patient is a 62-year-old right-handed woman with a past medical history of significant tobacco use with chronic obstructive pulmonary disorder, hyperlipidemia, and prior remote meningioma resection at 42 years of age with residual seizures on levetiracetam. She was diagnosed with stage IIB pT1aN1 left lung adenocarcinoma at 51 years of age and underwent left upper lobectomy with mediastinal lymph node dissection followed by adjuvant chemotherapy. Six months after her initial diagnosis, she was found to have brain metastases and underwent four Gamma Knife radiosurgeries to a total of 17 lesions over the course of 12 months. She did well over the next five years but then had progression of a right posterior temporal mass that was in the immediate area of a small lesion previously treated with Gamma Knife. She underwent a right-sided craniotomy and tumor resection, followed by adjuvant stereotactic body radiotherapy (SBRT) with 30 Gy in five fractions to the resection cavity. Two years later, she developed seizures and headaches, and she was found to have a growing focus of enhancement seen using MRI at the site of her previous surgery consistent with disease recurrence. Four months after this finding, she was taken back to the operating room for a redo right craniotomy for tumor resection.
The patient unfortunately once again developed local recurrence at the surgical site seen on fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) positron emission tomography (PET) and gadolinium-enhanced T1 weighted MRI four months post operation. She was initially considered for laser interstitial thermal therapy (LITT) but was thought to have a tumor configuration and morphology that is not amenable for treatment using this modality. After multi-disciplinary tumor board discussion, she was ultimately recommended repeat resection and GT. Accordingly, the patient underwent a third right craniotomy with tumor resection and placement of GTs in the tumor bed, and titanium mesh cranioplasty overlying the surgical site. The patient tolerated the procedure well.
A target was contoured on the preoperative MRI by the radiation oncologist. The prescription