A 33-year-old male with a past medical history of polysubstance abuse presented to the ED after overdosing on heroin of an unknown dosage. He had overdosed earlier in the day on heroin but became responsive after his girlfriend administered naloxone. He subsequently overdosed again, but this time responded incompletely to a second naloxone dose prompting emergency medical services to transport him to the ED. His girlfriend reported that he had been having memory problems for the last few days, which involved him repeatedly asking her the same questions about tasks he intended on completing, but no other changes to his behavior. He reported current chronic heroin use via snorting, smoking one pack of cigarettes per day for an unknown period of time, occasional marijuana use, previous methamphetamine use, and denied any alcohol use.
Initial vital signs were unremarkable. Physical exam was notable for short-term anterograde memory deficits. He was unable to follow and remember his plan of care and would frequently ask medical staff members what was going on and why things like imaging were being done, despite having asked these same questions just minutes before. The patient was awake and alert, but not oriented to date or location. He was noted to have a left frontotemporal scalp hematoma from a fall from two days prior, and mild right forearm weakness and tingling. Initial labs including complete blood count (CBC) and basic metabolic panel (BMP) were unremarkable. Lab results for herpes simplex virus (HSV), HIV, urine drug screen (UDS), and blood ethanol were all negative. CT and MRI of the brain revealed symmetric bilateral hippocampal edema (Figures -). The patient was admitted for cerebral edema, altered mental status, and acute anterograde amnesia.
Initially, our differential diagnoses included toxic encephalitis, herpes encephalitis, or other viral encephalitis. Neurology was consulted and potential etiologies included infectious encephalitis for his amnesia and cerebral edema, and his right forearm weakness was from compression