A 40-year-old woman with prior mediastinal radiation therapy (RT) due to lung cancer at the age of 3 presented with recurrent syncope during exercise. During most of her adulthood, she had felt a reduced physical capacity compared to her peers. Echocardiography revealed moderate stenosis and insufficiency of a tricuspid aortic valve. She had no classical risk factors for development of coronary artery disease: no history of smoking, no diabetes, normal cholesterol levels, no arterial hypertension, and no family history of premature ischemic heart disease. Initial assessment consisted of exercise testing and coronary CT angiography. Exercise testing resulted in dizziness and significant ST-segment depression of 2-3 mm in inferior and lateral leads, but no chest pain. CT angiography revealed severe stenosis of the left main coronary artery () and ostial stenosis of the right coronary artery (RCA), confirmed by coronary angiography (CAG). Following a joint cardiology-cardiothoracic multidisciplinary team meeting (MDT), percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) with drug eluting stents was performed in the left main coronary artery and ostially in the RCA.
A few months later, ischemia was revealed during routine exercise testing as part of the outpatient cardiac rehabilitation program. A new CAG revealed stent occlusion ostially in the RCA. Re-PCI with stenting was performed; however, symptoms persisted, and re-echocardiography now revealed progression to significant aortic valve stenosis and significant insufficiency. Due to prior mediastinal RT and excessive aortic calcification and fibrosis as well as narrow diameter of both the aorta ascendens (annulus 23 × 17 mm and sinutubular junction 20 × 21 mm), descendens, and arcus, transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI) was recommended by consecutive MDT meetings. TAVI was performed by inserting a 20 mm Sapien 3 valve via femoral approach without complications, along with redilatation of the RCA. She was asymptomatic at three years follow-up after TAVI.
Severe coronary atherosclerosis and valvular heart disease have been reported as rare