In February 1996, a 40-year-old Caucasian woman consulted an orthopaedic surgeon because of persistent pain in the right foot. On radiograms, a lytic tumoral process was discovered in the right os naviculare. Curettage was performed, and anatomopathological revision of the obtained tissue at the Mayo Clinic Rochester (Dr. Unni) confirmed the diagnosis of a clear cell chondrosarcoma (). In June 1996, local progression of the disease was discovered and an amputation of the right lower leg was performed. Subsequently, she was followed with annual chest X-ray examination and clinical examination by her treating orthopaedic surgeon.
In April 2016, her chest radiogram showed a new dense opacity in the left upper lung lobe. On CT scan, two opacities in the left upper lobe were detected, with a diameter of 6 mm and 3 mm, respectively (). After multidisciplinary consultation, close follow-up was advised given the aspecific and small diameter of the lesions. Three months later, only one lesion remained on CT scan. Further follow-up with annual radiograms was organised. In December 2019, a slight increase in diameter in the nodule in the left upper lobe was seen. Subsequently, a new CT scan was performed, which showed a single nodule of 13.5 mm. Apart from a dry cough, the patient was asymptomatic at the time of this finding. A lung function examination was performed and showed no abnormalities. Further staging with an abdominal CT showed no other lesions suspected for metastases. There was no history of smoking. A CT-guided lung biopsy was performed, and the patient was referred to our tertiary sarcoma centre for further diagnostic examination and treatment because of the probable diagnosis of a chondrosarcoma metastasis.
At the time of referral, the patient was in good health and had no symptoms other than a transient dry cough. She did not have complaints of weight loss or exhaustion. Clinical examination showed no abnormalities besides the lower right leg amputation after surgery for the chond