We present the case of a 24-year-old woman who presented to the family medicine clinic complaining of left shoulder pain for three months duration. The pain was stabbing in nature and was non-radiating. She reported that her shoulder pain was aggravated by raising her arms above her head. The pain was not associated with numbness or weakness. There was no history of preceding trauma. The patient scored the pain as 5 out of 10 on the severity scale. Further, the patient reported that the pain was constant with no progression in its severity. The past medical history was remarkable for intermittent asthma. She underwent laparoscopic appendectomy five years ago with no signs of complications. She did not require any previous hospitalization. She had never smoked nor consumed alcohol before. The family history was non-contributory.
Upon examination, the patient appeared comfortable. Her vital signs were within the normal limits. Examination of the left shoulder reveals a restricted range of motion of the left shoulder due to the pain. The supraspinatus impingement test was positive. However, examination of the right shoulder and the cervical spine revealed no abnormalities. Further, examination of other systems, including the cardiorespiratory and abdominal systems, was normal. Initial laboratory investigations, including hepatic and renal profiles, were within the normal limits (Table ).
In view of the aforementioned clinical findings, the initial diagnosis was supraspinatus tendinosis. The patient was prescribed oral analgesic medications and was advised to undergo a number of physiotherapy sessions. Six weeks later, the patient presented to the clinic again and reported she did not have any improvement in her symptoms. Hence, the patient underwent a local injection of corticosteroid in the supraspinatus region. However, the patient returned back after one month with the progression of her pain, and the pain became associated with numbness radiating to his arm. Of note, the patient had not had any plain radiographs performed in the primary care clinic.
In light of the lack of clinical improvement despite the multiple