Our patient was a 41-year-old man who presented to the emergency department with a sudden abdominal pain of eight hours' duration. The pain was located in the epigastric area with radiation to the back. The pain was constant and was stabbing in nature, and it was associated with nausea and vomiting. He reported that the pain worsened when lying flat on his back and was partially relieved when he leaned forward. Before the onset of his pain, the patient had been feeling well. There was no history of anorexia, weight loss, fever, or change in bowel or urinary habits. The past medical history of the patient was remarkable for well-controlled hypertension and diabetes mellitus. His medication included amlodipine 5 mg and metformin 1000 mg, and he reported good compliance with his medications. He had not undergone any previous surgery. He had a smoking history of 20 pack-years and reported no alcohol consumption. The family history was significant for ischemic heart disease.
Upon examination, the patient appeared agitated and diaphoretic. His pupils were dilated bilaterally. His vital signs included tachycardia (120 bpm), tachypnea (24 bpm), hypertension (150/90 mmHg), and normal temperature (36.9 ℃). His oxygen saturation was 99% on room air. Abdominal examination revealed a soft and lax abdomen with no tenderness. His bowel sounds were normal. Cardiorespiratory examinations were also normal. Initial laboratory investigations revealed a hemoglobin level of 14.5 g/dL, leukocytes count of 11,000/μL, and platelets count of 375,000/μL. Both serum amylase and lipase were within the normal limits. The biochemical investigation, including hepatic and renal profiles, was normal (Table ). Given the physical signs of the patient, a toxicology screen was conducted, which was positive for methamphetamine use. The patient reported that he used recreational drugs occasionally and he admitted that the abdominal pain developed a few hours following methamphetamine use.
Initial abdominal radiograph revealed normal findings (F