A 74-year-old Caucasian man with a 20 pack-year smoking history but no significant past medical history presented with chest pain and shortness of breath found to have an non-ST elevation myocardial infacrction requiring percutaneous coronary intervention with placement of five bare metal stents. He was incidentally found to have a 3.5 cm right lower lobe mass on chest radiography. He underwent PET-FDG which confirmed a 2.2 cm right lower lobe mass without evidence of metastases. The patient then discussed a right lower lobectomy with lymph node dissection with cardiothoracic surgery. However, because he was recently status post placement of five coronary artery stents and would need to continue antiplatelet therapy, decision was made to delay the intervention. Observation 3 months later with CT-imaging revealed that the mass had enlarged to 3.4 cm, now with hilar and mediastinal lymphadenopathy.
The patient subsequently underwent endobronchial biopsy of mediastinal lymph nodes. The initial specimen, derived from station 7 and 12R lymph nodes, showed the following morphologic findings on direct smear preparations and cell block sections: abundant foci of small malignant cells demonstrating pleomorphism and high nuclear to cytoplasmic ratios. The cells displayed scant cytoplasm and finely granular chromatin along with irregular nuclear membranes and infrequent nuclear molding. Nucleoli were inconspicuous or absent (). Immunohistochemical studies were further performed on the cell block material. The immunohistochemical analysis was carried out in a routine pathology laboratory setting with clinically accredited antibodies and standardized methodology. It demonstrated tumor cell reactivity with antibodies to synaptophysin and CD56, and no significant reactivity with antibodies to cytokeratin AE1/AE3, TTF-1, chromogranin A, p40, and CD45. The Ki-67 index was 90-100%. Flow cytometry results were negative for lymphoproliferative processes. Thus, the histopathology was consistent with small cell carcinoma presumably of lung origin.
He initiated chemoradiation with 4 cycles of cisplatin and etoposide with radiation to the right lower lobe and right hilum. Checkpoint inhibition was not included