A 53-year-old man with a history of untreated hyperthyroidism (toxic nodule), chronic smoking, and arterial hypertension arrived to the emergency room of our institution complaining of disorientation, restlessness, palpitations, vomiting, abdominal pain, and fever (not quantified) that had begun over 48 hours prior. Worsening symptoms, including right-sided weakness and difficulty understanding verbal language and communication with his spouse in the previous 24 hours, prompted the patient's assistance to our institution. Upon evaluation by the emergency room physician, the patient had a decreased neurological status with poor response to pain and verbal stimuli, for which he was endotracheally intubated to secure his airway. A head computed tomography (CT) scan without intravenous contrast revealed a gross acute left middle cerebral artery (MCA) territory infarction with no associated hemorrhage and minimal compression of the left lateral ventricle (Figures and ). The patient had a National Institutes of Health stroke scale value of 9/42, so the emergency department consulted the internal medicine department for further management. Thrombolytic therapy was not indicated due to the timing of symptom appearance.
Upon evaluation in our department, we determined that the patient was acutely ill with a Glasgow Coma Scale score 11/15 when assessed while off sedation and on mechanical ventilation support with adequate oxygenation. His vital signs showed that he had a remarkable high fever (39.8°C), tachycardia (heart rate: 107 bpm), and elevated blood pressure 180/90 mmHg. A physical examination revealed right hemiplegia with bibasilar crackles and an irregular rhythm. He also exhibited remarkable pedal edema. An electrocardiogram revealed atrial fibrillation with adequate ventricular response. Due to a patient history of untreated hyperthyroidism secondary to problems with medical insurance as well as clinical signs and symptoms, the patient was diagnosed with thyroid storm. The patient had a Burch and Wartofsky score of 70, which is indicative of thyroid storm []. Treatment was initiated immediately, using a beta blocker (