A 76-year-old Caucasian male was admitted to our hospital with acute onset of left-sided weakness. His past medical history included osteoarthritis only, and his surgical history included bilateral knee replacements. There was no history of cholecystitis, gallstones, pancreatitis, or abdominal surgeries in the past. He denied any fever, chills, shortness of breath, chest pain, palpitations, abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting, and constipation at the time of admission. He was an active smoker (1 pack of cigarettes daily) but denied use of alcohol or illicit drugs. On neurological exam, there was contralateral hemiplegia and hemiparesis of left face, arm, and leg. Power was 0/5 in left upper and lower extremity, and reflexes were absent bilaterally. His speech was slurred, and he failed swallowing evaluation in the emergency department. He was not a tissue plasminogen activator (TPA) candidate as the time of onset of stroke was unknown. Magnetic resonance imaging of brain without contrast showed subacute to acute infarct in the right middle cerebral artery territory. Magnetic resonance angiography of the brain showed acute occlusion of middle cerebral artery in the proximal M1 segment. Carotid Doppler showed mild stenosis of internal carotid arteries bilaterally. Transthoracic echocardiogram was done to rule out embolic source of stroke, which revealed ejection fraction of 45% with no valvular abnormalities and shunting. His chest X-ray was unremarkable. Two days later, he suffered septic shock with a fever of 39°C and hypotension. Blood, urine, and respiratory cultures were obtained, and broad-spectrum antibiotics (vancomycin and zosyn) were started empirically. Two blood cultures were positive for Klebsiella oxytoca, which was sensitive to ceftriaxone, levofloxacin, and gentamycin and resistant to ampicillin and cefazolin. Urine and respiratory cultures did not grow any bacteria. Antibiotics were tailored to ceftriaxone based on the sensitivity results. Computed tomography scan of the abdomen, as part of workup for septic shock, showed dilated common bile duct. Right