A 53-year-old woman with no significant past medical history presented to the emergency department with a ten-day history of progressive, severe right neck and shoulder/scapular pain that was worse with movement and radiated down her right arm to her fingers. NSAIDs, range of motion exercises, and trigger point injections had provided only minimal relief. She denied recent trauma, had no infectious symptoms, and reported no smoking history.
Right shoulder radiographs revealed a right superior mediastinal mass (). Further imaging with contrast enhanced CT showed a 7.2 cm well demarcated, heterogeneously enhancing mass with areas of fat attenuation and some prominent internal vessels within the right superior, posterior mediastinum (). The mass anteriorly abutted the brachiocephalic artery and trachea but did not invade adjacent structures. A cervical spine MRI obtained for cervical radiculopathy symptoms partially included the mass, which was heterogeneous, hyperintense to muscle on both T1 and T2 weighted sequences with a few internal flow voids, and showed moderate loss of signal with fat saturation ().
Mesenchymal neoplasms, lymphoma, and teratoma were considered in the differential diagnosis based on imaging. Microscopically, the CT-guided biopsy showed multivacuolated and granular eosinophilic cells with small centrally located nuclei consistent with hibernoma. No lipoblasts or cytologic atypia was seen to suggest liposarcoma. Due to the unusual location, large size, and possible mass effect on adjacent structures, total excision was performed by a right video-assisted thoracoscopy. The surgeon described a dense, fatty, lobulated mass located in the posterior mediastinum with extension into the lower neck and without direct invasion of surrounding structures. The resection specimen measured 8 × 5 × 3 cm. Grossly, it was described as a circumscribed, yellow to tan, lobulated mass (). Histologic sections demonstrated cytologically bland brown fat cells with abundant granular cytoplasm identical to the preoperative biopsy (). Due to their classic histomorphologic features, most hibernomas can readily be