A 56-year-old female presented to the hospital with the complaint of fatigue, chest pain, shortness of breath, and dyspnea on exertion. On further review of symptoms she admitted to diffuse left upper quadrant tenderness and unintentional weight loss of 15 pounds. Her past medical history was significant for anemia, hypothyroidism, and a 40-pack-year history of smoking. The patient was suffering from longstanding symptomatic normocytic anemia and was followed up by gastroenterology for a potential etiology. However she underwent several endoscopies and colonoscopies with unsuccessful attempts to diagnose her anemia. The patient received multiple packed red blood cell transfusion therapies for symptomatic relief.
Pertinent laboratory findings included white blood cell count of 15.3 × 109/L, hemoglobin count of 7.1 g/dL, hematocrit of 23.4%, platelet count of 153 × 109/L, MCV of 83.4, and red cell distribution width of 19.7%. A computed tomography with contrast of the abdomen and pelvis demonstrated marked splenomegaly that is heterogeneous with multiple low attenuation masses (). In addition the patient underwent a positron emission tomography scan which showed splenic hypermetabolism ().
With no resolution of her symptomology and radiographical evidence of an enlarged hypermetabolic spleen, the patient decided to undergo an elective splenectomy. Prior to the operation interventional radiology performed a splenic artery embolization to reduce blood flow to the spleen. The patient was taken to the operating room for a laparotomy. Upon entering the abdominal cavity the spleen was easily identified and had multiple omental adhesions. Due to the size, increased vascularity, and proximity to surrounding organs the splenic vein completely adhered to the distal pancreas and was unable to be safely dissected away. This resulted in a distal pancreatectomy. Once the spleen was removed the total weight measured 1,124 grams ().
The organ was sent for pathological analysis, with routine sections showing sheets and clusters of large atypical cells with vesicular chromatin and prominent nucleoli in a background of extensive necrosis, lymphod