A 64-year-old man was referred to the otorhinolaryngology outpatient clinic of the Karadeniz Technical University Medical School with a 2-month history of hoarseness. He had not been smoking for 5 years but had smoked for 10 years previously. He denied excessive alcohol consumption. A laryngeal examination revealed thickening in the left true vocal fold. There was fixation of the left vocal cord and approximately a 3 cm tumor arising from the left true vocal fold invaded the left arytenoid and occupied the ventricle. A biopsy was taken from the lesion with suspension microlaryngoscopy under general anesthesia. A histopathological diagnosis of pleomorphic rhabdomyosarcoma was made based on the detection of fused cells of variable dimensions with eosinophilic cytoplasm, which were irregular and hyperchromic (see ). They also had large or multiple nuclei. The neoplastic cells expressed desmin (see ), actin, and myogenin (see ) in immunohistochemical testing, confirming the diagnosis of rhabdomyosarcoma. The immunostainings with p63, p40, EMA, and cytokeratin-7 were all negative excluding the diagnosis of sarcomatoid carcinoma. Computerized tomography (CT) examinations of the abdomen and thorax revealed no metastases, and no lymphadenopathy was detected in the neck. The tumor was clinically staged as T3N0M0 (stage III) glottic cancer. The patient underwent total laryngectomy (see ) and left radical neck dissection with an uneventful postoperative recovery. A histological examination of the total laryngectomy specimen confirmed the diagnosis of pleomorphic rhabdomyosarcoma and excised lymph nodes were reported to have reactive hyperplasia. Because the surgical margins were in close proximity to the neoplastic cells (<1 cm), 3-dimensional conformal radiotherapy was performed with 6 MV photons in an Elekta Synergy Platform linear accelerator. Grade III-IV mucositis did not develop, as the patient received Ethyol and glutamine during the therapy. The patient decided not to receive chemotherapy after the evaluation of the tumor size, tumor grade, and lymph node involvement. The patient has continued monthly