A 58-year-old female was referred to an Otolaryngology outpatient clinic with a 6-month history of progressive hoarseness and dysphagia, associated with a 20-pound weight loss.
On further history examination, she had several seemingly unassociated medical symptoms over the previous year, including right hand and lower limb pain and weakness. She was subsequently diagnosed with carpal tunnel syndrome and right C6, left C7, and right L5 radiculopathy.
Four months prior to the current presentation, she was diagnosed with right middle lobe pneumonia and treated with a course of antibiotics. Despite medical management, she had persistent symptoms and consequently a computed tomography (CT) scan of the thorax was ordered. This scan demonstrated right middle lobe consolidation and atelectasis with mediastinal and hilar lymphadenopathy. Flexible bronchoscopy was performed at the time, and bronchoalveolar lavage of the right middle lobe, brush biopsies, and endobronchial biopsies were negative for malignancy. At that time, her vocal cords were documented to be normal. A follow-up CT scan demonstrated moderate resolution of the pneumonia.
The patient's relevant past medical history included a 40-pack-year smoking history and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. She had no known medication allergies. There was no previous history of head and neck surgery.
On physical examination, she was cachectic in appearance. She had audible inspiratory stridor and increased work of breathing. Flexible nasolaryngoscopy revealed bilateral vocal cord paralysis. There was no palpable neck mass. The remainder of the cranial nerve examination was normal, as was the remainder of the head and neck examination.
Informed consent was obtained and the patient was taken to the operating room for a tracheostomy. Postoperatively, a CT scan of the skull base to the aortic arch was ordered and no lesion along the course of either vagus nerve was found. A modified barium swallow demonstrated mild oral and moderate pharyngeal phase dysphagia with frank aspiration, and, as a result, enteral feeding was initiated