A 79-year-old female presented to the emergency department with 2 weeks of left jaw pain and swelling as well as left facial weakness and droop. As seen in , an MRI with IV contrast revealed a 1.5 × 1.5 × 1.8 cm heterogenous, low-intensity, peripherally enhancing lesion located in the deep lobe of the left parotid gland, abutting the posterior aspect of the left lateral pterygoid muscle. It demonstrated likely pathologic involvement of the facial nerve within the parotid gland and in the region of the stylomastoid foramen. She was subsequently referred to our office and was found to have weakness of the marginal branch of the facial nerve and diminished gag reflex.
Due to high malignancy suspicion, a left total parotidectomy with facial nerve resection was performed as well as facial nerve reconstruction. The tumor was noted to be very firm and was encountered deep in the parotid gland, extending to the deep muscles in the neck but not adherent to any surrounding structures. The margins were distorted during the excision. Surgical pathology included 2 tumor excisions exhibiting spindle cell morphologies and 5 lymph nodes labeled benign. The first parotid excision was 2.5 cm and showed extensive calcification and hyalinization. The second was 1.9 cm, surrounded nerve bundles, and was noted to have focal necrosis. Diagnosis was a sarcoma ex pleomorphic adenoma with the sarcomatous component being consistent with a leiomyosarcoma.
The patient began external radiation 2 months postoperatively to the left total parotidectomy tumor bed using generous margins and tracing the path of the left facial nerve back to the stylomastoid foramen. Lymph nodes were not included since the surgical specimens were negative and spindle cell sarcomas do not generally metastasize to lymph nodes. Left facial droop improved over the course of 6 weeks of 30 radiation treatment fractions. Six months after surgery, PET scan of the head and neck showed no abnormal hypermetabolic foci within the head and neck region to suggest metastatic disease. Nonspecific bilateral hilar