A 45-year-old woman was referred to the Emergency Unit by the cardiologist for management and investigation of symptomatic severe hypertension. At admission, blood pressure was high at 190/130 mmHg. Heart rate was normal at 78 bpm. The clinical examination was unremarkable. There was no evidence of aortic dissection and the patient was transferred to the Intensive Care Unit for blood pressure stabilization.
Prior to admission, the patient was seen for the first time by cardiologist because she suffered from symptomatic hypertension with headaches, scotoma, tinnitus, epistaxis, paresthesia in the upper limbs, and dizziness lasting for 4 months. The episodes occurred several times per month but were more frequent of late and tended to happen every 2 days, lasting from a few minutes to an hour. The patient felt well between those episodes except for fatigue. She had been taking a combined antihypertensive drug (angiotensin-conversion enzyme inhibitor with diuretics) for 3 days prescribed by her general practitioner.
Diagnosis of hypertension was established by her GP, confirmed by blood pressure self-measurement, which showed systolic pressure up to 180 mmHg and diastolic pressure up to 80 mmHg. The patient also had palpitations and tachycardia up to 147 per minute.
The patient had no major medical history, although she had depression when her first husband died from a car accident 20 years ago, leaving her in charge of a small child. She has now remarried and had 2 other children. She explained that her son from her first husband had psychological issues and drinking addiction; when drunk, he could be verbally and physically violent towards her. She confessed that her son tried to stab her 4 months ago and went to jail after that event. She had recently started seeing him again but was very anxious during their meetings. She did not drink alcohol but usually smoked a few cigarettes on social occasions. She did not use illicit drugs and did not drink coffee regularly.
Biological results were strictly normal