A 42-year-old female attended the office to investigate a localized ridge atrophy in the area of the upper right canine (). The patient was in good general health, with no history of systemic diseases, drug allergies, and smoking habits. Upon clinical examination, the patient was found to have a horizontal bone loss with a minimal vertical component and a coronal ridge width of 2 mm (). With respect to the soft tissues, the site was characterized by a thin gingival biotype with no keratinized mucosa. Further, the patient presented a skeletal class I deep bite with a history of an impacted canine extraction and a bone regeneration procedure carried out two years earlier, followed by infection of the graft itself. Radiographic examination, carried out with a Cone Beam Computed Tomography (CBCT) scan, confirmed the clinical evaluation and showed remnants of a non-well-defined graft consisting of few granules of a radiopaque material and a transcortical screw (). The patient feared to be treated with a conventional bridge and was seeking for an implant treatment and an aesthetic solution. Contextually, the patient complained about a dental apicoectomy performed in the lower incisors area, followed by a mucosal fistula occurred one year later.
The proposed treatment plan consisted of an orthodontic treatment in order to correct the deep bite and obtain a teeth alignment, followed by a bone and soft tissues reconstruction to place implants in a prosthetically driven position, two provisional crowns, and a gold ceramic crown. The patient refused to undergo the orthodontic treatment; hence only the rehabilitation of the canine area was chosen.
The first step consisted in the reconstruction of the bone defect by means of an intraoral corticocancellous block graft harvested from the chin area, taking advantage of the simultaneous treatment of the apicoectomy area in the lower incisors region. Before the surgery, the patient was provided with a full-mouth disinfection session. One day before the appointed surgical session, the patient was instructed to start with an antibiotic