A 54-year-old Nigerian woman was referred to our department for further evaluation of abdominal pain. She had no remarkable past medical history and no history of alcohol consumption, smoking and drugs. She underwent endoscopic examination during a routine checkup. Upper GI endoscopy was performed and revealed a small submucosal lesion of about 1.2 × 1 cm in diameter, located on the lesser curvature of the gastric antrum. The esophagus, duodenum and the remaining parts of the stomach were normal. Upon hospitalization, physical examination, biochemical parameters were completely normal. Endosonography demonstrated a homogeneous, hypoechoic, clearly demarcated 1.2 × 1 cm mass, which was confined to the submucosal layer and above the muscularis propria (). It was challenging to confirm the diagnosis. Because the tumor was relatively small in size, it was considered for endoscopic resection.
Hypertonic saline-epinephrine solution was injected to distinct the tumor from the muscularis propria layer and prevent bleeding. The tumor was lifted with placement of elastic bands over tissue to produce mechanical compression over the lower end of the tumor () and cut electrically with a high-frequency snare inserted, and submucosal resection was done. No post procedural complication, such as bleeding or perforation. The excised specimen showed complete removal of the lesion. Cross-sections showed the tumor to be well-defined, homogeneous, solid and of yellowish color.
In the resected specimen, the tumor measured 1.2 × 0.6 × 0.5 cm in diameter. Histologic appearance showed submucosa to contain a lesion which is circumscribed and composed of nets and fascicles of cells with abundant granular cytoplasm and vesicular nuclei. Wisp of collagen is seen intersecting the lesion (). The granules were positive for periodic acid-Schiff stain, and also were immunoreactive to NSE and S-100 (). The diagnosis of GCT was made. The post procedure recovery was uneventful. She remained asymptomatic and no recurrent disease was observed after a 1-