A 22-year-old G2 P-0-0-2-0 Hispanic patient was transferred from outside hospital for evaluation and management of worsening abdominal pain and findings of bilateral cystic adnexal lesions with septations and large ascites. Her obstetric and gynecologic history was significant for two dilatation and curettage procedures for elective abortion. Her surgical history was otherwise not significant. She was currently using oral contraceptive pills and continued to be sexually active. She denied any history of sexually transmitted diseases and did not have a recent pap smear. Her medical history was remarkable for bipolar disorder and depression. Her social history was notable for her being adopted and she did not know her biologic family. She also was a smoker.
She had previously presented to an emergency department (ED) at an outside hospital for evaluation of right lower quadrant pain without report of fever, chills, or abnormal vaginal discharge. She had no prominent gastrointestinal or urinary symptoms. Her urine pregnancy test was negative. After workup including a pelvic ultrasound, this pain was thought to be due to a ruptured ovarian cyst and was managed with analgesic medications. She however returned to the outside ED 2 weeks later with persistent pain and on repeat pelvic ultrasound was found to have larger bilateral septated ovarian cysts measuring up to 5 cm in largest dimension with free fluid seen in pelvis. She was transferred to our hospital for additional workup and management.
On presentation, she reported that the pain has moved from the right lower quadrant to the left lower quadrant and was aggravated by exercise. She also reported early satiety and noticed 15 pounds of unintentional weight gain in last 2 months.
Her examination revealed that she was afebrile and was hemodynamically stable. Her abdomen was soft but distended and tympanic in upper quadrants with mild tenderness in epigastrium on deep palpation. There was no rebound or guarding and a negative murphy's sign. A fluid wave was elicited at this examination. Pelvic exam revealed minimal yellow-white vaginal discharge, bilateral