A 57-year-old male, with no prior medical history, was admitted to a hospital for cough, fever, and respiratory distress. One day previously he had returned from a two-week holiday in Thailand. He had a body mass index (BMI) of 23 kg/m2, smoked 12 to 20 cigarettes per day, and denied alcohol abuse.
Chest radiograph revealed infiltrates in the left lower lobe and in the right hilar region. Antibiotic treatment was initiated with ceftriaxone and ciprofloxacin. As urine analysis came out positive for Legionella pneumoniae antigen, clarithromycin was added to the antibiotic treatment. Oxygen saturation deteriorated despite oxygen treatment with a high-flow oxygen device, and he was admitted to ICU for mechanically assisted ventilation. On day 2, it was still not possible to reduce inspiratory oxygen fraction (FiO2) to less than 0.95 without compromising oxygen saturation, and prone position ventilation was started and continued for 8.5 hours in an attempt to improve the pulmonary ventilation/perfusion profile.
During prone position ventilation, the patient was positioned with the forehead and chin resting on a head rest (). Two supporting pads were placed under the upper thorax and the hips, respectively, leaving the abdomen hanging free, without pressure on the penis or scrotum. A third supporting pad was placed under the lower legs. Nursing care included alternately hourly bending and extension of shoulders, elbows, hips, and knees, slight turning of the head, and observation for skin pressure marks.
During the following four days, FiO2 was successfully reduced to 0.35 without further need for prone positioning ventilation. Extubation was performed one week after admission, and on day 10 he was discharged from the ICU.
Six months after hospital discharge, a lung spirometry was performed. The spirometry was normal, but the patient complained of numbness on the lateral side of both thighs, which he had noticed already when he woke up in the intensive care unit six months earlier