A 62-year-old woman presented a pulsatile mass on the right side of the neck with thrill and murmur. Except for being a smoker for a long time clinical history was unremarkable. CT angiography confirmed a saccular aneurysm at the middle third of the extracranial internal carotid; larger diameter was 3 cm; no significant stenosis was detected.
Endovascular treatment was planned. The procedure was carried out under general anesthesia and systemic anticoagulation (nonfractioned heparin). Right femoral access was used. Angiography of the aortic arch and selective catheterization of its branches excluded significant stenosis and intracranial aneurysms.
A vertebral catheter and a hydrophilic guidewire were placed at the distal right internal carotid; there materials were exchanged for an Amplatzer guidewire and an 8-French sheath to enhance support.
Under road map and using a 0.018-inch guidewire a 5 mm × 2.5 cm Viabahn stent graft (Gore®) was deployed sealing the aneurysmal neck; no protection device for distal embolization was used. Control angiography showed persistence of blood flows inside the aneurysm because of an intense leak directly through the stent graft coating. After 15 minutes a control angiography showed no diminishment of the leak intensity (a video showing the leak is available as Supplementary Material, available online at ).
The only stent graft available was a Viabahn 5 mm × 5 cm. A second 0.018-inch guidewire was placed in parallel to first guidewire in order to enhance support for the second stent graft navigation. Under road map this second stent was deployed inside the previously implanted one. demonstrates the preoperative CT and intraoperative angiographies.
Control angiography showed complete aneurysm exclusion, patency of the carotid artery, and no signs of distal embolization.
After the procedure patient received 200 mg of aspirin and 300 mg of clopidogrel.
Patient remained in the ICU for 24 hours and was discharged after 48 hours.
Aspirin (100 mg/day),