The patient is a 41 year old middle-eastern female who underwent abdominoplasty, liposuction (arms and back), and buttock augmentation by fat grafting in the private setting. Her inpatient stay was uneventful and was discharged home 2 days postoperatively. She returned for follow-up on day 4 postoperatively, with concerns regarding a red, hot, and tender swelling in the left gluteal region. She was then admitted to the hospital for 2 days where intravenous ceftriaxone was started. She underwent surgical debridement of necrotic subcutaneous tissue the next day. She continued to attend her outpatient clinic appointments for a few days but was readmitted with similar complaints. Intravenous ceftriaxone was administered and she underwent further debridement of necrotic tissues. Postoperatively, intramuscular chymotrypsin and daily dressings were commenced. Clinically, her condition continued to deteriorate and she became febrile with peripheral temperature readings of 38 °C and started to develop gangrenous wounds. On day 6 postadmission, the patient was then transferred to the operating theater where further necrotic tissue was debrided. On day 17 postcosmetic surgery, she was transferred to the plastic surgery department with a specialist public hospital.
The patient was previously healthy with unremarkable past medical, surgical, and family histories. Her concomitant medications were related to her initial surgery and included analgesics, antibiotics, and omeprazole. She has no known drug allergies. She denies alcohol intake, smoking, and recreational drug use. She only traveled to Austria, Germany, and Netherlands 3 months prior to undergoing cosmetic surgery. She denies other risk factors such as being exposed to any environmental sources of infection such reconstruction/demolition sites, animal/insect bites, or any form of penetrating injury.
On admission, the patient's vital signs and systemic examination were unremarkable. The gluteal regions were severely affected, there was a 20 cm by 15 cm wound at the left buttock with extensive necrotic skin and subcutaneous tissue. The right buttock was indurated