In January 2015, a 52-year old woman with obesity and hypertension was admitted to the cardiac intensive care unit of a hospital in Northern Italy for acute dyspnea and chest pain. Computed tomography angiography revealed filling defects affecting the right and left branches of the pulmonary artery suggestive of pulmonary embolism (PE). She was initially treated with intravenous heparin sodium and bridged to warfarin as a long-term anticoagulant. Before the hospital discharge she was prescribed a vitamin K free diet reported in Table . Although the general recommendation is to maintain a stable and consistent intake of Vitamin K, in the clinical practice patients are suggested to avoid food high in vitamin K and they are given general dietetic guidelines.
During her first month as an outpatient it was very difficult to get her INR into the therapeutic range. Her family doctor recognized that poor nutrition is an important factor in establishing therapeutic levels and she was referred to our Nutritional Unit outpatient service (NU) for a nutritional assessment and specific medical nutrition therapy. Figure shows the timeline of present illness, intervention and follow-up.
She reported a long-term history of obesity and hypertension. She denied allergies and cigarette smoking and reported a sedentary lifestyle with no physical activity. The patient was nulliparous and had been on oral contraceptive therapy since the age of 25. The therapy was discontinued by her physicians after her PE. At the time of the examination she was on nebivolol, alprazolam and warfarin adjusted for INR, as well as vitamin B12 and folate supplementation (400 μg). Her family history was negative for thrombosis and cardiovascular diseases.
The patient reported that she began struggling with obesity during her childhood. She began adulthood at a weight of 90 kg (BMI 35.0 kg/m2). Maximum and minimum weight reported by the patient were 117.5 kg (BMI 45.9 kg/m2) and 69 kg (BMI 27.0 kg/m2) respectively at 51 and 26 years of age