A 62-year-old woman presented with a one-month history of sudden painless visual loss in the right eye. On examination, best corrected visual acuity (BCVA) was 20/20 in both eyes. Intraocular pressure was 21 mmHg in both eyes. Dilated funduscopic examination in the right eye revealed retinal emboli inferior to the optic disc obstructing a small arteriole associated with retinal ischemia (Figures and ). The left eye was unremarkable. There was no prior past ocular history. The patient had hypertension and hypercholesterolemia and had an extensive smoking history.
Fluorescein angiography revealed delayed retinal perfusion along the inferior arcade in the right eye (Figures and ). Optical coherence tomography showed normal foveal contour with inner retinal ischemia and thickening, consistent with an acute inferotemporal branch retinal artery occlusion (). The patient was started on Latanoprost at nighttime in the right eye to lower the intraocular pressure in hopes to increase reperfusion of the retina. An extensive cardiovascular workup was done, and significant carotid artery stenosis of less than 70% was found. She was started on plavix and aspirin by her cardiologist. The patient continued with BCVA 20/20 OU vision and persistent highly refractile peripapillary emboli; retinal ischemia resolved. Her OCT showed inner retinal atrophy (Figures and ).
Unexpectedly, the patient presented with a three-day history of sudden painless visual loss OD a year and a half after her initial presentation. BCVA was counting fingers (CF) in the right eye. Fundus exam revealed new superotemporal retinal ischemia associated with two new emboli. OCT demonstrated thickening and hyperreflectivity of the inner retinal layers consistent with an acute BRAO OD (). The patient refused fluorescein angiography at that time. Urgent workup revealed worsening stenosis to 80% in her right common carotid artery. The vascular surgery referral prompted a right carotid endarterectomy with a carotid stent placement approximately two months following her presentation with acute vision loss.