A male patient, 61 years old, treated for congestive heart failure since 2008 due to a myocardial infarction, had for the last 6 months experienced progressive worsening of dyspnea and lower limb oedema, despite frequent optimization of his medication. Laboratorial investigation for his worsening symptoms revealed a TSH of 4.3 IU/L (RV: 0.5–4.5 IU/L), free T4 21 pmol/L (RV 10–23 pmol/L), and free T3 2.5 pmol/L (RV 3.5–6.5 pmol/L). Echocardiography showed a dilated heart, a left ventricle ejection fraction of 28%, and moderate pulmonary hypertension. He was a smoker for 30 years and had quit 10 years before. Other relevant comorbidities included hypertension and hypercholesterolemia. His lipid panel and ambulatory blood pressure profile were within targets. His clinician referred him for evaluation of a possible hypothyroidism that could be contributing for the deterioration of cardiac function as well as evaluation for treatment.
Initial evaluation yielded negative antithyroid antibodies and a magnetic resonance image of his pituitary revealed no abnormalities. The low free T3 concomitant with normal FT4 and TSH was interpreted as a form of NTIS in this patient and as a marker of poor prognosis given the history of heart failure and rapid progressing symptoms in the last months. Treatment with T3 was considered, but as there is no conclusive evidence that treatment with thyroid hormones could improve the condition or even survival, it was decided for observation and recommended for further investigation into the cause of cardiac decompensation.
Coronary angiography revealed no new obstructions and the patient had no signs or laboratorial evidence of infections. Eventually, a computed tomography revealed a pulmonary embolism as the cause for his worsening symptoms. The patient was admitted for initiation of anticoagulant treatment and showed progressive clinical improvement until discharge 7 days later. At the end of anticoagulant treatment, his dyspnea was back to previous levels and the echocardiography-estimated right ventricle systolic pressure had improved. A new thyroid function test was