A 46-year-old female presented to the emergency department (ED) with a complaint of the sudden onset of low back pain. The symptoms began shortly prior to arrival when the patient experienced sudden onset of severe pain upon standing from a seated position. The pain was rated 10/10 and was localized across the low lumbar area with radiation to both legs. The patient took no analgesics and self-transported to the ED.
On ED presentation, the patient was noted to be unable to ambulate secondary to pain. Her initial vital signs were as follows: blood pressure of 177/99; heart rate of 88 beats per minute and regular; respiratory rate of 18 breaths per minute with an oxygenation saturation of 99% on room air; and an oral temperature of 99°F. The patient was an obese female with a history of untreated pernicious anemia and significant smoking history. The patient had not seen a physician in more than three years and had no recent illness or injuries. Examination revealed diffuse lumbar tenderness with normal lower extremity strength and gross sensation. Detailed sensory examination could not be undertaken due to patient distress at the time of evaluation. Posterior tibial and dorsalis pedis pulses were noted to be present bilaterally. Reflexes were found to be 2+ symmetrically with no evidence of saddle anesthesia. Shortly after presentation, the patient was noted to have urinated on herself because of a sense of “urgency.” Given this new finding, it was decided to immediately perform a noncontrast lumbar CT which showed no evidence of acute abnormalities. The patient was provided analgesics and a decision was made to monitor pain response.
Forty-five minutes after the analgesics were given, the patient experienced new onset of right lower extremity weakness. An emergent lumbar MRI was performed which showed no acute abnormalities. The patient continued to complain of severe back pain and progressively worsening lower extremity weakness which now included both lower extremities with the new onset of paraesthesias. Reex