The patient was 52-year-old Caucasian male, with no significant past medical history, who presented for routine follow-up after having been diagnosed with carcinosarcoma of the right parotid gland with a metastatic deposit within the jugular foramen, 18 months after diagnosis and 1 year after completion of treatment. He was an avid smoker of 1 to 1.5 packs per day, did not have a family history of cancer, and had no environmental exposures during work.
At the time of diagnosis, 18 months prior, initial pathological and histological analysis displayed a malignant neoplasm of the parotid gland with a biphasic histological pattern. The minority component had overtly glandular epithelial features characterized by well-defined islands of neoplastic cells. These cells were positive for pankeratin and epithelial membrane antigen. Special stains also revealed intraluminal/intracystic mucin. Surrounding the aforementioned neoplastic islands were cells showing a solid growth pattern. These cells were negative for pankeratin and only a small number showed staining for epithelial membrane antigen.
After discussion and presentation at tumor board the patient had started an aggressive treatment regimen that included a radical parotidectomy, complete with neck dissection and excision of the jugular foramen mass using gamma knife radiosurgery. Given the aggressiveness of the disease, on completion the patient was referred to medical oncology for concurrent chemoradiation. At that time the patient received 3 cycles of cisplatin chemotherapy at a dosage of 100 mg/m2 along with X-ray radiation therapy. The positron emission tomography (PET) scan following completion of treatment showed no evidence of local recurrence within the parotid or mastoid region. Furthermore, there was no radiological evidence of distal recurrence using flurodeoxy glucose–labeled PET scanning.
At this time the patient had then presented to the clinic for a routine 6-month follow-up visit (a year after completion of therapy) with no complaints or symptoms. The oral cavity and oropharyngeal examination revealed no lesions on presentation. Both ear canals were patent and the patient’s tympanic membranes were clear. Visual