The patient is a 28-year-old female with history of nausea, emesis, and headaches started in December of 2015 with subsequent five emergency visits to a local hospital. She was diagnosed with new onset hypertension with blood pressures running in the 200's systolic and 100's diastolic. She had no associated symptoms of neurologic deficits, chest pain, dyspnea, or heart failure. She described a sudden onset of right flank pain and was evaluated with computed tomography (CT) of the abdomen that showed a large wedge-shaped hypodense areas in the upper pole and posterolateral midpole of the right kidney concerning for acute infarction. A probable thrombus in the right main renal artery was suspected (). The patient was treated conservatively with enoxaparin subcutaneous injection 1 mg/kg twice daily and amlodipine for her high blood pressure. She returned to our office February 2016 for a second opinion after persistence of her high blood pressure and nausea. Her blood pressure was 156/100 mmHg and heart rate was 100 beats/min. She had no flank or abdominal tenderness and the rest of her examination was unremarkable. Pheochromocytoma was ruled out with a 24-hour urine collection for metanephrines and catecholamines.
The patient's past medical history is notable for neurofibromatosis type I with fourth ventricle mass status after right-sided ventriculoperitoneal shunt. She does not smoke and has no history of diabetes or hyperlipidemia. She drinks alcohol on occasion. She is single and has no children. Her family history is unremarkable for cardiovascular disease. Given her persistent hypertension and her nausea, renal angiography was advised.
After preparation and draping and 1% Xylocaine anesthesia, the right common femoral artery was entered percutaneously via the Seldinger technique and a Hemaquet catheter introducer is advanced into the artery over a guidewire. After abdominal aortography with a pigtail catheter, a Cobra catheter was used to selectively obtain left and right renal angiography and identified the right renal artery dissection ().