A 46-year old male non-smoker presented in December of 2007 with right supraclavicular lymphadenopathy. An excision biopsy of the lymph node found small cell lung cancer. A combined PET-CT (Positron Emission Tomography-Computed Tomography) scan showed a 5 cm right hilar mass and right paratracheal lymphadenopathy. He had no disease elsewhere. An MRI (Magnetic Resonance Imaging) of the brain was negative for metastatic disease.
The patient was referred to our institution for treatment in January 2008. He had a low-grade disease and favorable response to various therapies, and a prolonged disease course as delineated in Fig. . He was initially treated with cisplatin and etoposide and concurrent radiation therapy. He achieved complete response after 6 cycles of chemotherapy, and subsequently underwent prophylactic cranial irradiation. He was monitored clinically and by imaging every 3 months. In May 2009 the disease relapsed with left supraclavicular lymphadenopathy, confirmed by excision biopsy. He underwent radiation therapy with concurrent cisplatin and etoposide for 2 cycles followed by 4 cycles of oral topotecan. He had complete response again that lasted for a year. He had 2 further courses with platinum and etoposide due to relapsed disease in 2010 and 2011. Due to relapse in his right hilar and paratracheal lymph nodes, he was treated on a phase I trial of an Aurora kinase inhibitor in 2012 with a complete response that lasted about 18 months. Then he progressed to develop aortocaval lymphadenopathy. He again received carboplatin/etoposide with initial response but developed a malignant pleural effusion and worsening retroperitoneal adenopathy after receiving 5 cycles. Over the next 18 months, he received several agents (topotecan, everolimus, temozolamide, docetaxel and sunitinib) with only stable disease as best response. His disease progressed to involve several organs including brain, spinal cord, liver, pancreas, adrenals, bone and pleural, pericardial and peritoneal spaces. During this time he underwent several palliative procedures including two resections of intramedullary metastases, multiple sessions of stereotactic brain radiation therapy