Patient 2 is 54-year-old female non-smoker, who was diagnosed with adenocarcinoma of lung with liver metastases in May 2012. Molecular analysis revealed EGFR (Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor) mutation on exon 21. She was mostly treated at a different institution and visited us a few times for second opinion. She was initially started on erlotinib and she went to her home country where it was switched to gefitinib due to skin rash. She had marked improvement on follow-up PET scan. She underwent stereotactic body radiation therapy (SBRT) to the primary lung lesion in right lower lobe and to the hepatic metastases. She returned to United States in March 2013 when therapy was switched back to erlotinib without any side effects. In June 2013 she developed pleural effusion on the right side and underwent thoracenteses. Cytology was positive for malignancy. She decided to bring gefitinib from Taiwan and started using it due to progression. In November 2013, she developed pericardial effusion with tamponade and underwent pericardiocentesis. Therapy was switched to afatinib. She showed objective response, however in April 2014 she developed progression with metastases to uterus. She was treated with bevacizumab plus afatinib. She had stable disease for about a year when she progressed in May 2015.
In July 2015, she was started on nivolumab (3 mg/kg every 2 weeks). She developed recurrent right pleural effusions requiring four thoracenteses over the next 8 weeks (Fig. ). She also developed pericardial effusion with cardiac tamponade and underwent pericardiocentesis 7 weeks after initiation of nivolumab. Both pleural and pericardial fluid cytologies were positive for malignancy. Lymphocytes accounted for 30 % of cells in pericardial fluid analysis. She was also treated with prednisone for the possibility of immune-related Adverse Effect (irAE). Doses varied between 20– 60 mg daily due to successive tapering schedules with recurrent effusions. Although her metastatic thyroid nodule and metastatic skin nodules showed clinical response after 3 treatments, the patient declined further treatment with