A 61-year-old female presented to our department with a seven-year-history of involuntary movements of the abdominal wall. The movements were initially intermittent. However, they gradually evolved over time to occur more frequently. There was no pain but some discomfort was accompanying the movements. The movements were not voluntarily suppressible and disappeared during sleep. The rate and the amplitude of the involuntary movements were increased by stress. Five years prior to presentation, she underwent cholecystectomy, hysterectomy, and oophorectomy. One year later she was diagnosed with depression and irritable bowel syndrome. She was treated with lorazepam, fluoxetine, chlorodiazepoxide, and clidinium bromide. The patient is a chronic smoker with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. She had no family history of movement disorders.
Her neurological examination was unremarkable. Semirhythmic writhing wavy movements involving abdominal wall and paravertebral muscles producing displacement of umbilicus were observed. These movements occurred exclusively in the sitting and standing positions, and abolished on lying on her sides and significantly decreased when lying supine (Additional file 1: video, segment 2). The movements did not show any variation in intensity or frequency during respiration.
Laboratory, radiological, and fluoroscopic investigations were normal similarly to case I. Abdominal ultrasound depicted fatty liver. A diagnosis of belly dancer’s dyskinesia was made and she was started on trihexylphenydil and clonazepam, but without noticeable benefit.
Utilizing the same aseptic technique and under ultrasound guidance, a total of 240 units of BTX was injected into the rectus abdominus muscles bilaterally, in which 40 units/site in a total of 6 sites were administered. The patient reported marked improvement and she was able to sit on the chair and walk independently 3 weeks after the injections with no side effects. She has been on regular follow ups every 6 months, to which she received BTX reinjection over a period of 48 months. On her last follow up, the patient