A 26-year-old gravida 4 para 2103 with a dichorionic, diamniotic pregnancy developed intrahepatic cholestasis in the setting of acute HCV infection. Her obstetrical history was notable for her three previous pregnancies complicated by preeclampsia. Her past medical history included opioid abuse for 7 years including daily intravenous drug use, as well as tobacco abuse, asthma, and depression. She denied any personal or family history of liver disease.
At 21 weeks of gestation, the patient was admitted for voluntary detoxification from intravenous opiate abuse. During this admission, the patient reported significant right back pain and right upper quadrant abdominal pain. The patient was found to have transaminitis of unclear etiology, with respective levels of AST and ALT of 886 U/L and 405 U/L. Evaluation at that time included a negative hepatitis panel and unremarkable right upper quadrant ultrasound. The negative hepatitis panel demonstrated absence of serum antibodies for hepatitis A, hepatitis B, and hepatitis C and absence of hepatitis B surface antigen. During her admission, the patient was transitioned from detoxification to buprenorphine for opioid maintenance therapy. Her abdominal pain resolved spontaneously and the patient was discharged home. At 22 weeks of gestation, the patient presented to a routine prenatal visit with a complaint of diffuse itching. Ursodeoxycholic acid 300 mg orally three times daily was initiated empirically for a clinical presentation concerning ICP. A repeat hepatitis panel was again negative; however HCV RNA PCR was positive, with viral load of approximately 3 million IU/mL. Initial level and also highest recorded level of serum bile acids was 239 micromol/L; AST and ALT reached peak levels of 1033 U/L and 448 U/L, respectively. The patient was continued on ursodeoxycholic acid and received standard antenatal testing. Fetal status remained reassuring throughout her pregnancy, as evidenced by nonstress tests and serial ultrasounds. Growth percentiles were 46% and 49% at 27 weeks of gestation, for twin A and twin B, respectively. At 33 weeks