A 43-year-old lady presented to emergency department with a 3-week history of intermittent headaches, deteriorating vision, and dizziness with nausea and vomiting. A few days later she started having episodes of generalized tonic-clonic fits. There was no history of fever, weight loss, or recent travel abroad. Her past medical history was significant for an episode of left sided weakness with facial weakness at age 19 which resolved on its own with no residual deficit. A CT scan at that time showed an area of damage in the right hemisphere within the white matter; these appearances were suggestive of an infarct. An MRI scan done at that time did not show any features consistent with multiple sclerosis. CSF analysis was within normal limits. Visual evoked potentials were also normal. The exact cause for this episode was not found and the patient was discharged with the advice to quit smoking. No further tests were done at that time. Since then, she remained fit and healthy with no further episodes of weakness. She was not on any regular medications. Her family history was unremarkable. Physical examination, including a full neurological examination, was also unremarkable. There was no focal neurology, neck stiffness, or any other signs of meningism.
Routine lab tests were all normal. With this presentation, head CT scan was an obvious first choice investigation. It showed an area of low density within the right parietal region measuring about 2.7 cm, with no evidence of enhancement following injection of IV contrast and no mass effect (). A head MRI scan showed mature damage most likely due to an old infarct () but it also revealed leptomeningeal enhancement along several regions of the brain ().
Based on the findings of the head CT scan and head MRI scan the differentials included diffuse leptomeningeal disease (with an old infarct) as a result of inflammation secondary to sarcoidosis, infection with tuberculosis (TB), and malignancy either primary or as a result of an underlying metastatic process from lung or breast