The patient, aged 37 years, a female, was admitted to the Department of Maxillofacial Surgery with complaints on the mandible mobility in the frontal and right distal regions when opening and closing the mouth and impaired mastication due to partial mandibular edentulism on the right side.
In 2011, in a clinic at place of the patient's residence, she was diagnosed to have fibrous dysplasia of the mandible on the right side, for which the patient underwent the resection of the lower jaw from the frontal region to the right ramus with external approach. Later on she had two surgeries of microsurgical mandibular reconstruction with the use of vascularized fibular bone autografts carried out in the regional clinical center. Unfortunately, the autotransplants were removed in both cases due to vascular anastomosis failure.
In May 2012, a reconstruction of the right mandible was done with a free nonvascularized rib autograft in our Department. Within a year after the surgery, the patient had retention of more than 90% of the autotransplant volume and the satisfactory function of mastication on the left side. However, no consolidation was observed and nonunions were diagnosed within the proximal and distal fixation areas that caused mobility and prevented any prosthetic treatment in the mandible on the right side. Therefore, reconstructive surgery with the resection of nonunions, bone grafting, and osteosynthesis was performed. Despite the surgical intervention, a control clinical and instrumental examination in 0.5 year after the operation detected slight mobility in the frontal region and within the right ramus and no radiological evidence of consolidation (). The diastasis in the frontal mandible ranged from 5 mm on the upper edge to 14 mm on the lower one; the average tissue density between bone edges was 158.55 ± 116.29 HU; the separation between the transplant edge and the mandibular ramus on the vestibular surface achieved 9.2 mm, with the average tissue density in the nonunion area being 204.52 ± 97.84 HU.
Taking into account a potentially poor blood supply within the fixation of