A 46-year-old male patient was referred for treatment and follow-up in the cystinuric clinic.
Medical history included type 2 diabetes, hypertension, obesity (body mass index [BMI] 39.5), dyslipidemia, a heavy smoking background (three packs a day for 32 years), and a peripheral arterial disease that led to an internal right iliac artery graft placement 6 years ago. In 1994, cystinuria was diagnosed with a complicated kidney staghorn stone that led to a left nephrectomy.
Since then, multiple fURS sessions were performed.
The patient arrived at our urology department after being found to have a 3 cm pelvic stone with a Double-J catheter placed after two shockwave lithotripsy failed sessions (the last one was discontinued because of his overweight). At that time, his glomerular filtration rate was 59 mL/(min ·1.73 m2).
After treatment options were explained, an fURS session was planned and performed. The patient was placed in the LP as standard procedure. After 2 hours, the stone was completely dusted and a Double-J catheter was left in place. There were no intraoperative complications noted.
During the first hour in the recovery room, the patient developed severe pain in the right calf. Physical examination by a vascular surgeon showed muscle stiffness, edema, and increased volume; the patient did not tolerate external compression and had no sensory loss of or motor response failure.
Doppler ultrasound examination showed femoral, popliteal, and posterior tibial pulses. The vascular graft was permeable and the popliteal and posterior tibial arteries had adequate flow rates.
The patient was found to have a postreperfusion and compartment syndrome after suffering from an ischemic period because of prosthesis bending and collapsing in the LP. An urgent fasciotomy was performed to release the lower limb pressure. A double incision technique was done with two 15 cm incisions in the anterolateral and posteromedial areas of the calf muscle to decompress the anterior and lateral compartments and the superficial posterior and