A 32-year-old woman, gravida 5 para 2, had no regular prenatal care before 24 weeks of gestation. An anterior thoracic defect with an extrathoracic two-chamber heart was recognized at 24 gestational weeks of uneventful pregnancy during the first ultrasonographic evaluation. There was no family history of congenital anomalies, genetic abnormalities, or history related to ectopia cordis. During pregnancy, the mother was smoking 15 cigarettes per day. An unfavorable prognosis to the fetus was predicted and conservative management of prenatal care had been chosen.
The woman was admitted to the tertiary level obstetrics and gynecology clinic during active stage of labor, at gestational age of 42 weeks. Diagnosis of congenital heart anomaly was heart ectopia, and septal ventricular defect was confirmed by ultrasound. Multiple anomalies were observed: wide anterior thoracic defect with extrathoracic four-chamber heart, rounded apex of the heart, high ventricular septal defect, the major blood vessels transposition, narrow pulmonary artery, and pericardium covering only ventricles (Figures and ). Despite unfavorable prognosis to the fetus, mother had chosen intrapartum fetal heart monitoring. Due to fetal distress at a cervical dilation of 6 cm, cesarean section was performed. The newborn was a female of 3300 g weight and 44 cm height who scored 8 (1 min) and 8 (5 min) on Apgar scale (, Supporting Information Video 1 in Supplementary Material available online at ). At birth, the infant had hypotonia, weak cry, and generalized facial cyanosis. The physical examination revealed split sternum with complete thoracic ectopia cordis, the defect followed by anterior abdominal wall defect, supraumbilical omphalocele. Ectopic heart with partial absence of the pericardium was beating outside the thoracic cavity, at a rate of 130/min with remittent bradycardia. After birth, the infant's heart was covered with warm saline-soaked sterile dressing. The newborn girl was transferred to the specialized cardiac surgery centre, children's intensive care unit. She died