The patient is a 61-year-old woman with a past medical history remarkable for rheumatoid arthritis, who presented to our institution with a rash 2 cm from the anal verge. Upon further questioning, the patient reported that she had leakage of a small amount of stool and also passing of a small amount of bright red blood in her stool over the past many months. On physical examination, a palpable mass was present just proximal to the anal verge. Imaging and a rectal endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) or echo-endoscopy with fine needle aspiration (FNA) biopsies were obtained, and the pathology was consistent with rectal gastrointestinal stromal tumor (GIST). She underwent neoadjuvant treatment with imatinib 400 mg daily, followed by a successful complete rectal resection of the tumor. After one year, the patient underwent a follow-up examination, and postsurgical imaging was ordered. It showed a possible residual disease. Therefore, it was decided to restart imatinib postoperatively on a dose of 400 mg daily. The patient developed mouth sores, worsening fatigue and appetite, as well as facial swelling, thought to be due to imatinib. She had her dose of medication reduced to 200 mg daily due to the side effects including rash, mucositis, fatigue, and diarrhea. Subsequently, she developed ill-marginated, erythematous, rough papules following imatinib on both of her legs (calves). The skin biopsy was consistent with actinic keratosis (AK), which is widely accepted as a precursor to squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) formation. Imatinib was eventually stopped due to her lower extremity rash and concern for possibilty of progression to SCC.
After three months of follow-up, a computed tomography (CT) scan showed increased asymmetric soft tissue thickening of the rectum with adjacent fat stranding worrisome for tumor recurrence. This was followed by a positron emission tomography (PET) scan, which showed no definite evidence of focal abnormal radiotracer uptake in the chest, abdomen, or pelvis, except mildly increased radio