A 26-year-old male Caucasian patient presents three times to our emergency room with recurrent vomiting and colicky abdominal pain during the years 2014 and 2015. Every time he reports at least 20 episodes of vomiting a day and a strong abdominal pain (8/10) predominantly in the epigastric region. During the crises, he is unable to intake liquids or food out of fear of triggering vomiting. Episodes last about 24 to 48 hours and are refractory to all standard treatments for nausea and vomiting. His personal medical history reveals Gilbert's syndrome and a myringoplasty at the age of 5. The patient consumes cannabis twice a day since at least 10 years alongside an alcohol consumption which is reported to be irregular with 3 portions a week in average. He has been presenting these episodes in an irregular pattern for about 5 years with a duration of 1-2 days. The patient does not present fever and reports to have rather liquid stools, without meeting criteria for diarrhea. Before his hospitalization, several blood tests, enhanced abdominal CT-scan, and abdomen ultrasound have been performed ambulatory to investigate his symptoms. Blood tests, including complete blood count, glucose, basic metabolic panel, and pancreatic and hepatic enzymes, were normal. Radiological workup describes sludge and small gall stones within the gall bladder without evidence of acute cholecystitis. Considering the history with the atypical pain pattern and vomiting, the diagnosis of symptomatic gall stone disease was retained and a laparoscopic cholecystectomy was performed in August 2015. After an initial clinical improvement, the patient relapses and presents the same symptoms few weeks later, without any change in intensity.
At our ER department, the patient had normal vital signs and no fever and physical examination was normal except for dehydration and light epigastric tenderness during abdominal examination. A neurological assessment was negative for any focal neurological deficit. Blood tests showed a slight leukocytosis (12 Giga/l) and slight hypokalemia (3.4 mmol/l). Hepatic profile showed typical signs of Gilber