A 67-year-old man was admitted to the intensive care unit (ICU) due to a second exacerbation of COPD in two weeks. He came from a first aid unit, had already been through orotracheal intubation, and was receiving mechanical ventilation and antibiotics. The patient was a heavy smoker (120 pack-years of tobacco exposure) and started to claim dyspnea to great efforts over the previous few months; he had also lost 8 kg in less than a month. There was no other known comorbid condition in his clinical history. After some days of stabilization in the ICU, the patient was referred to the general internal medicine unit, where another exacerbation took place, along with fever and productive cough, likewise controlled with bronchodilators and antibiotics.
On physical examination, multiple seborrheic keratoses on the back of the hands (), elbows, and trunk were observed. They were asymptomatic and have appeared in the previous four months. These lesions alerted to the possibility of a paraneoplastic manifestation, hypothesis also considered by the dermatologists who followed the case.
The search for an occult neoplasia was then initiated. The investigation comprehended thorax CT-scan, upper gastrointestinal endoscopy, colonoscopy, and blood analysis, which pointed no malignancy. Colonoscopy showed four sessile polyps, one in the ascending colon (measuring 10 mm), histopathologically defined as a tubulovillous adenoma with high-grade dysplasia, and three in the transverse colon (the biggest measuring 9 mm), corresponding to tubular adenomas with high-grade dysplasia. Ultimately, abdomen CT-scan revealed one irregular-shaped vegetation on the bladder floor, measuring 22 × 18 × 16 mm, with no apparent adipose tissue invasion (). The patient denied previous hematuria or any other urinary symptom.
Due to an incomplete stabilization of the pulmonary condition, the patient was discharged and returned after a month for cystoscopy and transurethral resection of the bladder tumor. Histopathological examination of the removed tissue confirmed a noninvasive low grade papillary