A 63-year-old healthy male patient underwent a laparoscopic bilateral totally extra peritoneal inguinal hernia repair with two polypropylene meshes in 2010. His medical history reveals no use of any medication, nor diabetes, cardiopulmonary, or other diseases. He had stopped smoking 20 years ago and has a normal body mass index. The surgery went well and according to Dutch practice no tacks were placed. His postoperative recovery was uncomplicated; there were no signs of seroma, hematoma, or recurrence. After almost three years, the patient returned with complaints of swelling in the left inguinal area and lower urinary tract symptoms. The urinary problems were initially successfully treated with an alpha-1-antagonist. Ultrasound and computer tomography (CT) showed a cyst-like fluid collection, approximately 6 cm in diameter. Ultrasound guided aspiration of the cyst was performed due to progressive complaints of restriction of abdominal movement. The cysts' content was a clear serous liquid. Due to persisting urinary problems, a cystoscopy was performed three months later. It showed an abnormal indentation on the ventral side of the bladder, indicative of external bladder compression. CT showed a giant fluid collection of almost 16 centimeters in diameter ventrally of the bladder in Retzius' space, evidently compressing the bladder and causing the urinary problems (). After extensive interdisciplinary deliberation with many experts in Netherlands in the field of inguinal hernia repair, the most minimally invasive approach was chosen: aspiration and sclerotherapy with a tetracycline solution. This time, the cystic content was a brown viscous liquid. Cultures showed no signs of bacterial growth. After initial success, the patient returned with the same symptoms, reappearing after just one week. Ultrasound showed an image of “flying” mesh within a recurrent cystic cavity, which had taken on the original dimensions in less than three weeks. We chose to perform a laparoscopic fenestration due to the localization and the extent of the cyst. Opening of the cyst revealed approximately 600 cc of green-yellow viscous fluid and two