A 45-year-old male from the Netherlands presented with a painless right parotid swelling that was progressively increasing in size for the past 8 months. Though occasionally he suffered from jaw lock, other symptoms associated with neurologic deficit such as drooling, facial weakness, paresthesia, or auditory defects were absent. Apart from being a social alcohol consumer, there was no history of smoking, prior radiation, or significant family medical history, especially in regard to his present illness.
Physical examination revealed a tender right parotid swelling below the ear lobule, which extended inferiorly to the angle of the mandible (). The skin overlying the swelling was slightly erythematous, thickened, and nodular. The swelling was firm, diffused, and fixed to the underlying muscles, and there was no associated lymphadenopathy. Otoscopic examination of both ears was within normal limits.
The patient initially had a neck ultrasound and then a magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) to characterize the nature of the lesion. The neck CT scan revealed a well-defined altered signal enhancing mass measuring 3.5 × 2.2 × 2.0 cm at the posterior aspect of the superficial part of the right parotid gland (). The radiologist's impression was an altered signal enhancing mass lesion, likely to be a benign pleomorphic adenoma. The patient then underwent MRI of the parotid glands, which showed a well-defined focal lesion of altered signal intensity at the posterior aspect of the superficial part of the right parotid gland, measuring 3.5 × 2.2 × 2.0 cm along its maximum transverse, craniocaudal, and anteroposterior diameters, respectively. The impression was again benign pleomorphic adenoma of the right parotid gland. However, the radiologist could not exclude other diagnostic possibilities and recommend fine-needle aspiration cytology.
Fine-needle aspiration cytology of the mass was nonconclusive as the smears only showed polymorphous population of lymphoid cells in keeping with intraparotid lymph node. In view of these clinical findings, a superficial parotidectomy with facial nerve