A 55-year-old man first presented with lumps on his mid-lower back and right forehead to his general practitioner who referred him to the General Surgery Department. On further history taking, it was noted to be associated with intermittent constipation, early satiety, and loss of weight of 4 kg over the duration of one month. There were no complains of gross haematuria or abdominal pain. He had no past medical history but had a 40-pack-year history of smoking. The lumps were approximately 4 cm in diameter, mobile, and painless with no surrounding erythema.
Gastroscopy and colonoscopy were performed, to evaluate the cause of the early satiety and constipation in a male aged above 50, which revealed polyps of tubular adenoma histology. Blood tests revealed normal renal function and electrolytes with elevated alanine transaminase and alkaline phosphatase. Ultrasound of the forehead lump was reported as a heterogeneous soft tissue lesion with skull vault destruction, highly vascular and separate from underlying brain parenchyma. The mid-lower back lump was reported as a solid vascular lesion. The radiologist decided to also perform a targeted ultrasound abdomen which located a right renal neoplasm with extension of the likely tumour thrombus into the right main renal vein and to the inferior vena cava. The patient was subsequently referred to the Urology Department which ordered further imaging to stage the tumour.
A computed tomography showed a 6.4 cm endophytic hypervascular right renal tumour () at the interpolar region with focal invasion into the liver () and seeding into the perinephric space and Gerota's fascia. It also confirmed the tumour thrombus in the renal vein extending into the inferior vena cava () and bilateral pulmonary arteries with pulmonary metastases (). There was no lymphadenopathy noted. The back lump corresponded to the metastatic deposit which replaced the whole L2 spinous process without invading the spinal canal. On the bone scan (), the forehead lump corresponded to the large photopaenic defect at the frontal region with increased osteoblastic