A 50-year-old male smoker presented in the emergency unit with acute generalized abdominal pain and guarding in the epigastric and right upper quadrant region. The patient complained of abdominal pain for the last 12 hours with two episodes of vomiting in the last five hours and complete constipation for two days. The patient is a known regular user of over-the-counter nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDS) for more than 10 years for his osteoarthritis and myalgias.
The patient had a distended centrally inverted abdomen with thoraco-abdominal respiratory movements. A dull percussion note was present at the flanks with decreased bowel sounds. No visceromegaly was noted on physical examination. The patient was febrile with a temperature of 100℉ though the rest of his vitals were stable with a heart rate of 87 per minute, respiratory rate of 17 per minute and blood pressure of 130/90 mmHg. A pre-rectal examination showed a collapsed rectum, normal prostate palpation and tenderness on deep bimanual palpation.
After a brief history and physical examination in the emergency room, the patient was admitted and a thorough workup panel was requested. The complete blood panel showed neutrophilic leucocytosis, though renal function tests, liver function tests, urine complete analysis, serum electrolytes and erythrocyte sedimentation rates were all within normal range. Further workups for hepatitis B antigen and antibody for hepatitis C showed no viral antigenicity. Serology for helicobacter pylori was also negative.
A differential diagnosis of gastritis and duodenal perforation was made owing to the symptoms and long usage of NSAIDs. Pancreatitis, biliary pathologies and bacteremia were considered second options in finalizing the diagnosis. The patient was sent for a radiological consult where his radiographs, abdominal ultrasound, and computerized tomography were done (Figures -).
After making the final diagnosis, the surgical team decided to treat the patient with a unique and non-invasive approach. To start the management, a nasogastric tube was passed