A 78-year-old female went to her primary care physician (PCP) complaining of progressively worsening shortness of breath. Her PCP referred her to the nearest emergency room to evaluate for possible pulmonary embolism. There was also concern that the patient may have chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) or asthma. She was given IV methylprednisolone and albuterol with an improvement of symptoms.
While in the emergency room, a CT angiogram of the chest was negative for pulmonary embolism but did reveal a right heart mass. A subsequent echocardiogram confirmed a mass-like structure centered in the tricuspid valve consistent with either a tumor or thrombus. She was started on IV heparin and transferred to our hospital.
A detailed history and physical examination were obtained at our institution. The patient had a past medical history, including Type 2 diabetes, hypertension, restless leg syndrome, and cerebrovascular accident (CVA) in 2014, that did not produce any neurologic deficit.
After the CVA, severe stenosis was discovered in her right carotid artery during imaging performed at an outside hospital and she underwent right carotid endarterectomy. During the surgery, a mass was visualized surrounding her right carotid artery, which was biopsied and confirmed to be diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL). The patient underwent three cycles of chemotherapy and 17 treatments with radiation therapy resulting in complete remission.
There was also a brief smoking history, but she reported quitting over 35 years ago. The physical exam was unremarkable except for a presystolic murmur at the left sternal edge.
The only laboratory value abnormalities included a low hemoglobin (11.1) and normal mean cell volume (91.2), consistent with a normocytic anemia. Flow cytometry of peripheral blood detected no monoclonal B-cells, immunophenotypically abnormal T cells, or immature monocytes or melanocytes. Peripheral smear revealed a normocytic anemia consistent with the laboratory abnormalities.
An echocardiogram and coronary CT angiogram were performed at our institution to better define the cardiac mass. The echocardi