A 69-year-old male patient, smoker and with a previous diagnosis of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), was admitted to the emergency room with mental confusion and ataxia. The patient was in a good clinical condition, and there were no signs suggesting any source of respiratory, urinary or central nervous system infection. Chest X-ray and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the brain were requested.
Chest X-ray revealed a dense nodule of approximately 13mm in diameter, in the periphery of the left lower lobe of the lung, and a prominent left hilar lymph node. The MRI detected multiple metastases associated with vasogenic edema.
According to clinical history and radiologic findings, the hypothesis of small cell lung cancer was made. Chest and abdominal CT was performed to determine the stage of disease and track other disease sites. The abdomen image revealed hepatic metastasis, unspecific nodular thickening of adrenal glands, retroperitoneal lymphadenopathy and a slightly enlarged prostate. The chest image showed a left hilar mass with mediastinal invasion, with possible invasion of the descending aorta and occlusion of the left inferior pulmonary vein, besides a small pulmonary nodule to the right. Biopsy of liver metastasis was performed and confirmed diagnosis as small cell carcinoma. Immunohistochemistry result was consistent with the hypothesis of small cell lung cancer.
First line palliative chemotherapy with carboplatin AUC 5 on day 1 and etoposide 100mg/m2 on days 1 to 3, every 21 days was administered. On day 8 of the first cycle, the patient presented with abdominal distention and fever. Complete blood count showed neutropenia. The patient received antibiotics and CT scans of the chest, abdomen, pelvis and sinuses were performed. Comparing with the initial scans, these images showed presence of gas dissecting the wall of sigmoid colon extending to the mesosigmoid, retroperitoneum and posterior mediastinum, and a bulky pneumoperitoneum without gas in the portal venous system. Moreover, there was the additional finding of a hematoma in the psoas major muscle associated with edema in the adjacent subcutaneous tissue ().