A 37-year-old Caucasian male presented to an emergency department with worsening epigastric pain of 4-day duration. He stated that his pain initially began as indigestion while he was leaning forward getting out of bed and progressed to a constant aching pain with associated nausea. He stated that bending forward exacerbated the pain. He denied prandial pain, melena, hematochezia, or recent change in bowel habits. History was notable for hypertension which was being managed without need for antihypertensive medications. Surgical history was not significant for any prior abdominal surgeries. His social history was significant for tobacco abuse which consisted of a half pack of cigarettes a day for 25 years. Initial vital signs were significant for hypertension. Physical exam on presentation was significant for minimal epigastric tenderness with normoactive bowel sounds without rebound or guarding. Lab analysis was not significant for elevated lipase, liver function abnormalities, anemia, or electrolyte abnormalities. Computed tomography (CT) of the abdomen and pelvis with IV contrast was performed which showed a filling defect in the celiac artery. Due to concern for dissection, a CT angiogram of the abdomen and pelvis was performed. The CT angiogram showed a 40.1 mm dissection from the celiac origin into the hepatic artery as well as a 37.9 mm dissection from the celiac origin into the splenic artery (Figures and ). He was also found to have a beaded-appearing left main renal artery, raising concerns for fibromuscular dysplasia.
The patient was admitted for observation, given 1000 mL unfractionated heparin bolus, and started on an unfractionated heparin infusion. The patient was evaluated by vascular surgeons and gastroenterologists. When given the choice for stenting the lesion for symptomatic control, he elected not to have the lesion stented. Prior to discharge he was started on 81 mg aspirin daily and a follow-up appointment with repeat CT angiography was scheduled in 2 months. Follow-up CT angiogram two months after his initial diagnosis showed minimal enlargement of the dissection