The patient was an 18-year-old Spanish male with no relevant medical or psychiatric history. Regarding his substance use, he admitted daily use of tobacco (20 cigarettes/day, meeting criteria for tobacco use disorder), daily use of cannabis (3 cannabis cigarettes/day, meeting criteria for cannabis use disorder), and occasionally weekend drinking (no meeting criteria for alcohol use disorder). He denied consumption of other psychoactive substances. As for his family background there was a paternal uncle with an unspecified chronic mental illness.
He was admitted to a psychiatry ward after presenting with an acute psychotic episode. The clinical picture included delusions of reference and persecution, pressured speech, increased alertness, fright, suspiciousness, marked anxiety, and psychomotor agitation during previous days. Hallucinations were not identified. He was aware and oriented in person, place, and time. Over the previous week, he had felt very nervous due to the proximity of high school exams. Thus, he had been drinking about 6 ED cans (80 mg caffeine per can) per day during the last seven days. Also, he had been sleeping less than three hours per night in this period, until finally he showed global insomnia during the day prior to hospital admission. He denied increasing cannabis smoking in these days or consumption of other substances.
During his first day in the inpatient unit he presented severe acute psychomotor agitation that required mechanical restraint and high doses of medication (first olanzapine 20 mg oral, followed by haloperidol 5 mg and levomepromazine 25 mg intramuscularly). After these treatments he exhibited low awareness and the ECG showed sinus bradycardia and QTc prolongation. He stayed 24 hours in the intensive care unit until his ECG was normalized and he recovered good awareness level. Urinary drug screening test was positive for cannabinoids and negative for opioids, benzodiazepines, cocaine, amphetamines, tricyclic antidepressants, and barbiturates. Additional tests (cranial CT and blood tests) were normal.