A 73-year-old man was initially referred to the memory clinic in December 2013 with a history of gradual deterioration of short-term memory and increased dependence on family over an approximate 18-month period. This was with a background of stable multiple sclerosis with no other medical history of note. He was functioning well owing to a supportive family and positive routine activities undertaken mostly with his wife and had a strong academic background which could have contributed to masking of cognitive defects. He was given a diagnosis of a mild cognitive impairment based on impaired short-term memory, as evidenced by clinical evaluation and formal cognitive testing. He scored 80/100 on the Addenbrooke's Cognitive Examination III; most points were lost in the memory parts (where he scored 10/26) and less so in the fluency part (scoring 10/14) of the test. He was referred to neuropsychology, for brain imaging and was to be seen back in the clinic in 6 months' time. There were no treatable cardiovascular risk factors at this point; however, the patient was counselled on exercise and diet as well as basic activities to promote cognitive training in keeping with present guidance. The patient and his wife were informed it was difficult to give prognosis and although evidence is varied, a person with amnesic (memory loss) mild cognitive impairment would be at around 1 in 5 risk of being diagnosed with dementia at a later stage. From this presentation and clinical evaluation, it was thought that an Alzheimer's dementia was the most likely future diagnosis.
The patient then travelled by plane from Scotland to Australia, which involved a short connecting flight to London. On descent from the air to Australia, he experienced an episode of agitation and bizarre, nihilistic delusions about Nazis taking over the plane. After landing, he was admitted to a large, well-known teaching hospital in Australia. He continued to exhibit challenging behaviours such as agitation, wandering and resistance to