A 58-year-old man was admitted to our hospital because of acute cardiac decompensation. A transthoracic echocardiogram showed increased left ventricular end-diastolic volume and diameter (160 mL and 55 mm, resp.), severely compromised left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF 35%) with diffuse hypokinesia, and diastolic grade I dysfunction. A mild mitral regurgitation (MR) was noticed, while aortic valve leaflets and function were normal. Left cardiac catheterization showed 50% stenosis of left main and chronic total occlusion of the right coronary artery; therefore surgical myocardial revascularization was scheduled. The medical history of this patient was significant for impaired glucose tolerance, previous smoking, and Hodgkin's disease (HD) when he was 33 years old. Because of this, he was submitted to mediastinal radiation therapy (RT), with negative follow-up thereafter. In consideration of history and clinical presentation, we decided to perform OPCAB, harvesting left internal thoracic artery (LITA) and a segment of saphenous vein (SV). Despite the presence of firm adhesions at harvesting, LITA flow and caliber were proper, so that this conduit was successfully grafted to left anterior descending artery (LAD). Ascending aorta (AA) and pulmonary artery were partially covered by fibrotic tissue, and dissection to allow side clamping of the aorta was demanding. Finally, we did not succeed in punching the aortic wall, because it was abnormally hyperplastic; we decided to change strategy, preparing a composite Y-graft (SV to LITA) for obtuse marginal branch. During the operation it was not possible to achieve our standard target activated clotting time (ACT) for OPCAB (>250 sec), despite high doses of heparin and antithrombin III. The immediate postoperative course was characterized by an intense inflammatory response. On first postoperative day dual antiplatelet therapy with acetylsalicylic acid and clopidogrel (100 mg and 75 mg daily, resp.) was started. The patient moved to the Cardiologic Rehabilitation Ward on the third postoperative day, and postoperative course was uneventful. He