A 30-year-old non-smoker male, carpenter by occupation was detected to have end-stage renal disease due to chronic glomerulonephritis in 2006. He remained on intermittent hemodialysis till he received a renal allograft from his 50 years old mother in August 2008. He was not given induction therapy. He received triple immunosuppression that included oral prednisolone, mycophenolate mofetil and tacrolimus in therapeutic doses. Due to financial constraints, mycophenolate mofetil was replaced with oral azathioprine 100 mg a day after 3 months of renal transplantation. He maintained normal graft function. Four years after transplant, he presented with hoarseness of voice of 2 months duration. This was insidious in onset, progressively increasing and was not associated with neck pain, voice fatigue and cough. There was no relief with voice rest. There was no history of fever, hemoptysis and weight loss.
His general physical and systemic examination was essentially unremarkable. There was no tenderness or bruit over the graft kidney. The local examination of the nose, throat and ear did not show any gross abnormality. Flexible fiberoptic laryngoscopy showed an exophytic growth on the vocal process of the left arytenoid, extending anteriorly till the anterior commissure. The growth was excised under general anaesthesia and the base fulgurated. The tissue was sent for histopathological and microbiological examination, to evaluate for neoplastic and fungal pathology.
On investigations, the complete blood count (CBC) showed mild anemia with hemoglobin of 12.5 gm/dl and normal total and differential leukocyte and platelet counts. Urine examination showed absence of proteinuria and hematuria. The blood biochemistry revealed blood urea and serum creatinine of 40 mg/dl and 1.5 mg/dl respectively. His serology tests for hepatitis B surface antigen and antibodies to hepatitis C virus, Human immunodeficiency virus and cytomegalovirus were negative. Chest x-ray was normal. Biopsy from laryngeal mass lesion exhibited a polypoidal appearance lined by stratified squamous epithelium underneath which sheets of histiocytes containing