A 58-year-old male with medical history significant for hypertension, type 2 diabetes mellitus, morbid obesity, hyperlipidemia, and 35 pack-year of smoking history presented with chief complaint of dyspnea on exertion and paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea for 2 weeks. He was being followed by his primary care physician for uncontrolled blood pressure. His home medications included aspirin 81 mg once daily, hydralazine 100 mg 3 times daily, amlodipine 10 mg once daily, carvedilol 25 mg twice daily, and minoxidil 20 mg twice daily. He reported that he has been having progressive difficulty in breathing, worsening lower extremity edema, orthopnea, dry cough, and 25-lb weight gain in 2 weeks. His blood pressure at presentation was 172/64 mm Hg, pulse rate 86 beats per minute, respiratory rate 18 breaths/min, and oxygen saturation 92% on 2 L of oxygen. He had 1+ lower extremity edema with very weak bilateral lower extremity pulses. Laboratory evaluation was remarkable for mildly elevated troponin at 0.1 ng/mL along with BNP of 231 pg/mL. Chest X-ray did not show any infiltrates. Heart size was normal and lung fields were clear. Electrocardiogram showed poor R wave progression and low voltage QRS in pre-cordial leads (). Transthoracic echocardiogram showed severe left ventricular hypertrophy, left ventricular ejection fraction of 55% to 60%, and grade II diastolic dysfunction. He was started on IV Lasix and taken to the cardiac catheterization laboratory with a working diagnosis of acute coronary syndrome. There was difficulty in advancing the guidewire across the aortic arch. Thus, fluoroscopy was performed, which showed a large radiolucency around the aortic arch (). Next, brachial access was obtained and left heart catheterization and coronary angiogram was performed that showed moderate nonobstructive coronary artery disease. Urgent computed tomography (CT) chest angiogram showed focal globular calcification near the distal arch of aorta () causing near complete occlusion leading to acquired aortic coarctation. The vascular anatomy was further