A previously healthy 38-year-old white man presented with left leg tightness and soreness. He had no significant past medical history but did have an extensive international travel history from his military service. His family history was notable for a maternal history of bladder cancer; a social history disclosed a remote 13-year chewing tobacco history with current cigar smoking accruing to approximately 1.3 cigar-years.
Over a span of approximately 6 months, his left leg tightness and soreness progressed to include his left low back along with sensory changes along his left lateral foot and heel that rendered him with intermittent physical limitation. A review of his symptoms was otherwise unrevealing with no constitutional symptoms. A physical examination was notable for “shotty” supraclavicular lymphadenopathy.
An initial evaluation at an outside institution was ultimately inconclusive. Serial magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and computed tomography (CT) of his chest, abdomen, and pelvis showed progressive and aggressive-appearing mixed sclerotic-lytic lesions in his iliac and sacral regions. One sacral lesion extended into the left S1 neural foramen. There was associated widespread lymphadenopathy involving the supraclavicular, mediastinal, abdominal, and pelvic regions. Multiple tiny pulmonary nodules up to 10 mm were also present. All imaging appeared consistent with multifocal osteomyelitis although a malignant or infectious process could not be ruled out.
The results of cursory laboratory tests were unremarkable and notable for only a mildly elevated sedimentation rate of 39 mm/hour. Rheumatic serologies and hematologic workup were unrevealing. Extensive infectious studies yielded no identifiable microorganism.
Multiple biopsies were sought. A left axillary lymph node excisional biopsy disclosed reactive lymphadenopathy with scattered pigment-laden macrophages and extensive fatty replacement. Right and left iliac bone marrow biopsies showed marrow fibrosis with focally prominent chronic inflammatory infiltrates. There was no evidence of mycobacterial or fungal organisms. Bone marrow flow cytometry showed no monoclonal B cell population. All biopsies were without evidence of lymphoma