A 48-year-old man was admitted to our hospital due to pain and tenderness in the upper and central part of the abdomen when fasting. There were no pertinent symptoms. His past medical history included benign prostate hyperplasia. He was a current smoker for 42 pack-years. Physical examination revealed nothing significant except for tenderness in the upper and central part of the abdomen.
Abdominal computed tomography (CT), upper gastrointestinal endoscopy, and complete colonoscopy revealed no abnormality. However, chest X-ray revealed a massive shadow in the right upper lung field (Fig. ), which was confirmed by chest CT showing a 65-mm mass in the right upper lobe with chest wall invasion (Fig. ). 18F-Fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) positron emission tomography-CT showed abnormal accumulation of FDG in the lung tumor, as well as in a portion of the jejunum. Intestinal fluoroscopy revealed stenosis without obstruction in the distal part of the jejunum (Fig. ). There was no evidence of lymph node involvement and distant metastases other than the jejunum. The clinical diagnosis was right lung cancer with metastasis to the jejunum. Transbronchial lung biopsy revealed no evidence of malignancy. The laboratory data revealed slight elevation in gamma GTP (80 IU/L) and C-reactive protein (0.78 mg/dL). The levels of tumor markers like carcinoembryonic antigen, cytokeratin-19 fragments, and pro-gastrin-releasing peptide were not elevated. Because the metastatic tumor in the jejunum was symptomatic and was localized in a single organ, surgery was planned for both the primary and metastatic sites. Partial resection of the jejunum was performed initially, followed by right upper lobectomy with chest wall resection within a month. The patient had an uncomplicated postoperative course.
Pathologic analysis of the lung tumor revealed atypical spindle cells with irregular and hyperchromatic nuclei invasively proliferating and arranged in interlacing patterns (Fig. ). Epithelioid cells with tubular differentiation (components of adenocarcinoma) were also noted in a small part of