A 21-year-old female patient came to our service with a complaint of unilateral right-onset headache associated with diplopia initiated 6 months earlier. She had no personal or family remarkable antecedents. She never smoked. Six months earlier, the patient started to experience one-sided right throbbing headache. She denied nausea, vomiting, or photo- or phonophobia. Fifteen days after the pain onset, she noticed double vision and medial deviation of the right eye, which forced her to wear an eyepiece to perform her activities and drive. She went to several centers and used various medications such as paracetamol, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), opioids, and triptans without improvement. Three months earlier, she started using dexamethasone 4 mg daily with partial pain control but maintenance of diplopia.
At the examination, the patient had cushingoid face, violaceous striae, and right VI cranial nerve palsy with no other neurological changes. Blood tests were normal (). A contrast-enhanced MRI scan of the brain did not show any remarkable features (). A spinal tap released crystalline cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) with an opening pressure of 14 cm of water. Biochemical, microbiological, and cytological analyses of the CSF were normal (). CT scan of thorax did not show any evidence of lymphoma or sarcoidosis.
Prednisone 1mg / kg was then started. With one week of treatment, complete reversal of ocular paralysis and remission of pain were observed. However, when the corticoid was gradually withdrawn, the patient returned to pain and returned to paralysis of the VI right pair. The prednisone was increased again to 1 mg / kg this time with reversion of ocular paralysis but without pain control. Several prophylaxis attempts were made with beta-blockers, calcium channel blockers, topiramate, and tricyclics without any symptomatic control that would allow corticosteroid withdrawal.
The pregabalin 150mg daily was then introduced. With 7 days of medication onset there was already an important remission of