The patient was a 79-year-old Caucasian male with locally advanced adenocarcinoma of the pancreas encasing the superior mesenteric artery and celiac ganglion. His past medical history includes a hiatal hernia, varicosities in the legs, and mild hypertension. Current medications include pancrelipase, omeprazole, and lisinopril. He smoked about one pack of cigarettes per day for 40 years but stopped at the age of 55 years and denied alcohol abuse. At the initial oncologic evaluation, his physical examination did not reveal any abnormality except varicose veins on the left leg more than right. Neurological examination was also normal. He was able to ambulate without any assistance and was able to do all activities of daily living (ADLs).
The patient started chemoradiation therapy consisting of capecitabine (1600 mg/m2 in two divided doses = 3200 mg/m2 per day Monday to Friday with weekends off), with concurrent radiation (50.4 Gy in 28 fractions over 5.5 weeks). He tolerated the combination therapy extremely well for the first three weeks without any major toxicity except grade one nausea, grade one vomiting, grade one diarrhea and grade one hand-foot syndrome. On day three of the 4th week, he presented to the oncology clinic with new onset of gait abnormality noticed by his son that morning. The son noticed that the patient was dragging the front of his right foot on the ground when he walked. The patient further confirmed that he developed a new difficulty lifting the front part of his foot that morning when he wanted to walk to the restroom. No gross abnormal findings were elucidated on neurological examination, including cranial nerves, except unsteady gait with right-sided foot-dragging, impaired heel-toe walking, diminished sensation to pinprick in the lower extremities, and decreased distal motor strength. A magnetic resonance imaging scan of the brain and thoracolumbar spines was unremarkable. Laboratory studies including complete blood count, chemistry, liver function tests