A 24-year-old man was brought to the emergency department (ED) of our hospital because of suddenly started abdominal pain, altered mental status, and agitation for the past 2 h. He complained of a severe persistent abdominal pain predominantly in the epigastric area. He was so agitated that apart from abdominal pain, no other history could be obtained. His colleague stated that he last noticed that the patient was “completely well” and was walking to the office about 3 h earlier. Then, he added that he was called by the patient's co-workers as they found the patient agitated while complaining of severe abdominal pain, nausea, stool incontinence, and diarrhea.
Past medical history of the patient was completely unrevealing, and no chronic medicine use or chronic medical condition was reported by his colleague. Social history was also unremarkable, except for occasional cigarette smoking. No illicit drug use was reported.
Initial physical examination showed a young thin man who was in severe distress. His heart rate was 110 beats per min, blood pressure (BP) was was 90/60 mmHg, and respiratory rate was 24/min. Oxygen saturation in ambient air was 89%. Auscultation of the heart revealed a moderate tachycardia with muffled heart sounds. Abdominal examination showed hyperactive bowel sounds and tenderness over the epigastrium with mild distension. No evidence of previous surgical scar was found.
Ultrasonography, according to the RUSH protocol, revealed mild pericardial effusion as well as moderate pleural and peritoneal effusions. ECG, performed about 10 min later, showed ST segment elevations in the leads II, III, and aVF. A presumptive diagnosis of internal hemorrhagic shock was made based on the abovementioned findings.
The patient underwent emergency contrast-enhanced CT angiography in a try to find any vascular lesion, especially dissection of the aorta. It revealed no evidence of aortic dissection but unexpectedly showed the presence of a radiopaque substance in the stomach,