This is the case of a 68-year-old white Japanese man with a history of long-term mild rectal pain and tenesmus for the last year, denying lower gastrointestinal bleeding and weight loss. Hypertension is his only comorbidity; it is treated with losartan 50 mg administered orally daily. His father died of acute myocardial infarction and his mother died of metastatic gastric cancer. He denied alcohol abuse and any drug addiction including tobacco. Concerning his history of surgery, he had an uncomplicated laparoscopic cholecystectomy due to gallstones 10 years ago. At the first medical consultation, he presented awake and alert, appeared healthy, and looked his stated age. His vital signs were within normal limits, with a blood pressure of 130×70 mmHg and a heart rate of 80 beats per minute (bpm) assessed by radial pulse palpation. A head and neck examination were also normal. An examination of his lungs revealed normal resonant percussion and auscultation was clear. Heart auscultation showed S1 heard best at apex with normal intensity and S2 heard best at base, normal splitting, without any extra sounds. Observation of his abdomen evinced four small laparoscopic scars and auscultation found slightly hyperactive bowel sounds. Abdominal palpation found neither tenderness nor masses. Regarding proctologic examination, an inspection of his anus found no lesion. A digital rectal examination revealed normal anal sphincter tone but showed a right palpable solid mass ranging from 3 to 7 cm from his anal verge. There was no blood on stool and his bulbocavernosus reflex was preserved.
The investigation proceeded with a colonoscopy that showed a 5 cm elevated lesion covered by normal mucosa, located 4 cm above the pectineal line. Complementary pelvic magnetic resonance imaging revealed a well-defined round tumor arising from his distal rectum associated with mild colon distension (Figs. and ). There were no signs of prostatic or bladder invasion. His urine analysis was within normal limits.
An EUS was then performed and confirmed