A 58-year-old male presented to the emergency room (ER) of our institution with sharp neck pain of three weeks' duration. The pain was acute in onset, radiating to right shoulder and right lateral aspect of the head. He reported that the pain was associated with numbness in right hand, blurring of vision in the right eye, tinnitus, and dizziness. Patient denied recent trauma to the head and neck. There was no history of weight loss or decreased appetite or change in bladder or bowel habits. Patient also denied headache, vomiting, chest pain, or shortness of breath.
His medical history is significant for cirrhosis of liver secondary to chronic hepatitis C infection and alcohol. His other medical conditions include essential hypertension and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. Patient denies undergoing any prior surgical procedures. His mother was diagnosed with breast cancer. He reported smoking one pack of cigarettes for the past 40 years. He has been dependent on alcohol but denied recreational drug use.
On initial evaluation, he was afebrile and hemodynamically stable. Physical examination revealed a tender point in the posterior aspect of neck without any visible anatomical abnormalities. On neurological examination, his mental status was intact and cranial nerve examination was normal. He had increased deep tendon reflexes on right side compared to left. There was decreased sensation to touch on the right side and Romberg sign was positive. There were no signs of meningeal irritation. Cardiopulmonary and abdominal examinations were within normal limits.
His laboratory results revealed normal blood counts including platelets. His electrolytes and renal and liver function tests were within normal limits. His hepatitis C antibody was positive. He was immune to hepatitis A but not immune to hepatitis B.
Computerized tomography (CT) of the cervical spine () revealed a mass at level of C3 with marked osseous destruction and encasement of right vertebral artery. Subsequent magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of cervical spine () revealed destructive enhancing mass at level of C2-C3 with evidence of