A 70-year-old female patient consulted medical doctor for recurrent moderate abdominal pain in the last few months. She had had a cholecystectomy 30 years ago; later on, without significant illness in medical history, she was a teetotaler and she smoked 2 cigarettes per day during 10 years but stopped completely during the 6 last months. Routine blood tests were in the normal range. Abdominal ultrasound did not visualize the pancreas well due to bloating. A CAT scan was performed, finding multiple calcifications and irregularly dilated main pancreatic duct, predominantly in the pancreatic head (Figures and ), where the dilatation had some cystic aspect and was disproportionally more pronounced than in the pancreatic body and tail. The same alterations were confirmed by MRI (Figures and ), without intramural nodules in the dilated main duct. Based on the two imaging methods, we could not distinguish between chronic calcifying pancreatitis and mucin-producing neoplasia, that is, main duct IPMN. ERCP was performed, and contrast injection revealed a cystic dilation of main pancreatic duct in the head (). The duct of Wirsung was less dilated in the body. Through pancreatic papillotomy, typical whitish pancreatic stone passed into the duodenal lumen (). However, after having continued the contrast injection, mucin passage was seen producing the typical fish eye appearance in the major and also the minor papilla (Figures and ). Simultaneous existence of CP with pancreatic stones and main duct IPMN was our final diagnosis. Given the high probability of malignancy in the dominant cystic lesion, surgery was decided and performed. Surgery revealed a cystic tumor that was found in a fibrotic pancreas. Pancreatoduodenectomy was performed with preservation of pylorus and pancreaticogastrostomy. Some whitish pancreatic stones were extracted. No lymph node metastasis was seen. Histological () findings confirmed the existence of a mucinous tumor emerging from the main pancreatic duct, with multiple foci of high grade dysplasia and even with evident transformation into an infiltrative malignant lesion (). No lymph node metastasis