A 53-year-old Caucasian male presented with a past medical history significant for chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), gout, hypertension, and smoking for 50 pack years. He was seen at his primary care physician’s office few weeks before admission for worsening shortness of breath, cough, and lower extremity swelling. The patient was given a prescription of oral azithromycin and furosemide. Despite these medications, his breathing continued to get worse prompting him to be seen at a local emergency room. He was found to be hypoxic on room air and in moderate to severe respiratory distress. He was emergently intubated, and the x-ray of the chest done at the outside hospital showed complete opacification of the left lung prompting the transfer to our medical intensive care unit (MICU) facility for further evaluation.
On arrival to the MICU, he was intubated and sedated. Initial blood work on arrival was remarkable for an elevated white count, uric acid, lactic acid dehydrogenase (LDH), potassium, and phosphorus with normal creatinine (Table ). The patient was taken for an emergent computed tomography (CT) scan of the chest that was remarkable for a large mass in the left lower lobe of the lung compressing the left main stem with possible endobronchial lesion with resultant post-obstructive atelectasis or pneumonia (Figure -). CT scan of the chest was also significant for bilateral mediastinal and hilar adenopathy (Figure ).
Based on the initial laboratory values and CT findings of a mass in the left lower lobe, the patient was diagnosed with STLS as he had no organ dysfunction at the time. The patient was started on intravenous (IV) fluids, allopurinol, and a one-time dose of rasburicase with frequent monitoring of the biochemical variables resulting in the normalization of uric acid, LDH, potassium, and phosphorus in 48 hours with persistent LDH suggestive of a high tumor burden (Table ).
The patient underwent bronchoscopy that was remarkable for a large mass completely