A 43-year-old Caucasian man, with a 4-week history of right upper quadrant and right flank pain radiating to his right testicle, presented to his general practitioner. There was no preceding trauma, haematuria or any other systemic symptoms. The past medical history included osteoid osteoma in the left upper femur, which was removed in 2007. He also had L4/5 microdiscectomy. There was no positive family history of medical problems or cancer. He was a non-smoker, had no allergies and was not taking any regular medications. The general practitioner organized an ultrasound, which revealed a large subcapsular haematoma measuring 7 × 5 × 7 cm in the right kidney compressing the renal cortex. Further investigation with computed tomography (CT) scan of the abdomen with intravenous contrast revealed enlarged right kidney with subcapsular haematoma and a mass lesion within the right lower pole measuring up to 7.4 × 7.5 × 9.2 cm with associated paracaval lymphadenopathy producing compression of the right renal vein and inferior vena cava (). The patient was then referred to an urologist for further management.
Physical examination revealed that the right kidney area was filled, with minimal tenderness. The haemoglobin concentration was 140 g/L. There was a mild elevation of creatinine (116 µmol/L), and the estimated glomerular filtration rate was 66 ml/min. CT staging showed a large right renal tumour and significant paracaval lymphadenopathy producing compression of the right renal vein and inferior vena cava. The size of the tumour was substantially increased in size to 11.5 × 11.6 × 11.5 cm when compared with that in the previous CT scan.
A preliminary diagnosis of renal cell carcinoma was made based on the clinical findings and investigations. The patient underwent open radical right nephrectomy, retroperitoneal lymph node dissection and partial excision, and reconstruction of vena cava. The renal samples were sent for histopathology. The right kidney specimen (with fibro adipose tissue) weighed 1291 g and 175