In January 2016, a 62-year-old asymptomatic male smoker was admitted to our hospital after being found bilateral lung masses. The PET-CT examination in the First Affiliated Hospital of Medical College of Zhejiang University revealed multiple nodules in bilateral lung with increased FDG metabolic abnormalities as the biggest in the middle lobe of right lung and the bilateral hilar lymph nodes enlargement. No distant metastases were detected. The patient denied any other medical history. On hospital admission, physical examination and laboratory test results were normal. A chest computed tomographic(CT) scan revealed a mass in the middle lobe of right lung measuring 3.0 x 2.0 cm, a nodule in the superior lobe of left lung measuring 1.4 x 0.9 cm. [Figure and ] The possibility of MPLC or a primary lung cancer with multiple intrapulmonary metastases was considered. After obtaining the patient's informed consent, computed tomography (CT)-guided percutaneous transthoracic biopsy of the left upper lobe (LUL) lesion and the right middle lobe (RML) lesion was performed, and histopathologic examination indicated poorly differentiated carcinoma in the RML lesion [Figure ] and adenocarcinoma in the LUL lesion [Figure ]. In light of the patient's advanced age with bilateral multiple lung nodules, aggressive surgical treatment of the bilateral lesions was not feasible. The patient refused to undergo chemotherapy or radiotherapy. Mutation analysis was performed showed that tumor cells in the LUL lesion harbored mutation within exon 21 (L858R) of the EGFR gene with no KRAS or PTEN gene mutation was identified. Considering that the left upper lung cancer was positive for EGFR mutations, the patient began treatment of 250 mg gefitinib daily from January 2016. However, after 2 months of therapy, chest CT showed that the RML lesion had increased in size, whereas the left lung nodules had gotten smaller. [Figure and ] Considering the opposite responses to gefitinib, our medical team chose a strategy of resection of the