A 71 y/o man with an environmental exposure to insulation for 20 years while working at NASA, with less than a 10-pack year history of smoking presented to the community emergency department with severe dyspnea and low grade fever. He was diagnosed and admitted for bacterial pneumonia, treated for two days with IV antibiotics, and discharged on oral antibiotics. His symptoms did not improve prompting two additional hospital admissions over 3 months. Chest CT ultimately demonstrated intraseptal thickening, areas of peribronchial consolidation, and ground-glass opacity involving the lower lobes. A surgical lung biopsy revealed organizing pneumonia associated with alveolar septal inflammation leading to a final diagnosis of COP. The patient was initially treated with Prednisone 80 mg daily that was later tapered to 60 mg 4 weeks later. Azathioprine was also started at 100 mg daily as a steroid sparing agent. Despite these interventions, his dyspnea continued and he was referred to our institution for further evaluation. On presentation, several painful, variably pustular papules and small nodules were present on the face and extremities. He reported an outdoor fall 8 weeks earlier and unsuccessful treatment with both doxycycline and cephalexin given for one month.
A biopsy by 4 mm punch technique of a fluctuant nodule on the arm () revealed a dermal abscess with gram-positive filamentous rods characteristic of Nocardia species (). A modified acid-fast Kinyoun stain was also positive. Chest CT showed interval development of bilateral upper lung nodules. The patient was directly admitted to the hospital and began treatment with intravenous imipenem in conjunction with oral trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole (TMP-SMX). Magnetic resonance imaging of the brain and a CT scan of the abdomen and pelvis were negative for other end-organ involvement. Tissue cultures grew Nocardia brasiliensis susceptible to augmentin and TMP-SMX.
The patient was discharged 5 days later after showing clinical improvement, with plans to continue TMP-SMX therapy for 6 months. At