A 56-year-old female without comorbidities and a 50-pack-year smoking history was referred to the emergency department with a severe right frontal headache. The onset was abrupt and the preceding symptoms and signs included nausea and ataxic gait. Neither cranial nerve abnormalities nor focal limb weakness was spared. Initial laboratory values were within the reference range. The patient underwent a magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) which revealed multiple nodular lesions throughout both cerebral and cerebellar hemispheres with an unusual lamellated pattern of enhancement. The demonstrated significant vasogenic edema did not led to midline-shift (Figures –). Chest X-ray detected opacity with a lobulated contour in the right upper lobe (). A contrast-enhanced chest computed tomography (CT) showed an ill-defined mass in the anterior segment of the right upper lobe and right hilar lymphadenopathy (). No additional abnormalities were observed on subsequent detailed metastatic work-up including abdominal CT and whole body bone scintigraphy. Due to the neurological symptoms, the patient underwent whole-brain radiotherapy (WBRT). Fractionation of 3 Gy per day was used, reaching a total dose of 30 Gy in two weeks; in addition, the patient received intravenously dexamethasone during WBRT. The performed bronchoscopy detected a bulging lesion located at the membranous portion of bronchus of the anterior segment of the right upper lobe. The lesion did not appear to be covered with normal bronchial mucosa. Subsequently, a biopsy was performed (), and the histopathology showed infiltration by atypical melanocytes containing melanin pigmentation (Figures and ). Positive immunohistochemical staining of MART-1, S-100 protein, and HMB-45 and lack of expression of cytokeratin (CK), epithelial membrane antigen (EMA), synaptophysin (Syn), and high molecular weight cytokeratin confirmed the diagnosis of pulmonary melanoma. Molecular profiling was conducted which failed to detect any mutations.
To rule out the diagnosis of melanoma metastasis from a primary site, an extensive skin and fundoscopic examination was carried out. Endoscopy of both upper and