A 61-year-old female with a history significant for chronic tobacco use, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), and hypertension (HTN) originally presented to the emergency department at an outside hospital with complaints of two months of left upper extremity paresthesias. On exam, she was found to have a normal neurologic exam without any features concerning for myelopathy. She did, however, have mildly decreased sensation in her left third and fourth fingers and the palmar surface of the left hand as compared to the right. As part of her initial evaluation at the outside hospital, a cervical magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scan was obtained which demonstrated mild degenerative cervical spondylosis worse at C6-7 and an upper thoracic spine mass causing severe canal stenosis.
Initial evaluation of the thoracic lesion with a contrasted thoracic spine MRI showed a solid, homogenously enhancing right-sided extradural mass at the T3 level (Figure ). The mass contacted the thecal sac along the lateral and ventrolateral surfaces, displacing the thecal sac to the left, causing cord compression with questionable abnormal cord signal. The mass also extended out of the right T3-4 neural foramen, widening it slightly.
The patient’s past medical history and the chest/abdomen/pelvis computed tomography (CT) were not concerning for metastatic disease; however, they did not rule out lymphoma or sarcoidosis. Consideration for lymphoma led to a repeat MRI with diffusion restriction, as prior studies have shown the utility of diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI) in the assessment of spinal lymphoma and other highly cellular tumors [-]. The tumor demonstrated marked restriction, supporting a possibility of lymphoma (Figure ). With percutaneous biopsy felt to be too difficult given its location, involvement with the nerve root, and proximity to the spinal cord, surgical resection and decompression were pursued. The patient was started on a trial of steroids to see if the lesion changed in size; however, repeat MRI demonstrated no changes in the lesion