A 76-year-old man presented to the Emergency Department complaining of acute chest pain while he was dancing with his wife. He described his pain as a crushing precordial sensation with profuse sweating, without any radiation and not related to respiratory movements. It lasted for 30 minutes, being gradually relieved with rest. He denied palpitations or any other associated complaints.
He had a history of hypertension and epilepsy for which he was receiving treatment. No past history of ischemic heart disease was mentioned. He quit smoking many years ago and denied alcohol or drug consumption.
On admission in A&E, he was completely asymptomatic. On examination, he looked well, although he was tachycardic and haemodynamically compromised with a systolic blood pressure of 85 mmHg. The rest of his general clinical examination was unremarkable.
A 12-lead ECG showed a broad QRS complex tachycardia which at first sight resembled a ventricular tachycardia on limb leads (). On close inspection, the precordial leads displayed an irregularly irregular rhythm with broad and bizarre complexes at a rate of 145 (), alternating with a few narrow QRS complexes in sinus rhythm.
Blood glucose was elevated (without previous known diabetes mellitus) and the rest of blood tests were normal, including creatine kinase, cardiac troponin T, serum electrolytes and full blood count.
Given the patient risk profile (old age, hypertension, newly diagnosed diabetes), an acute coronary event was a concern and in the heat of the moment a decision for rapid reperfusion therapy was initially considered. It was then ruled out as the few normal complexes on the ECG showed no ST-segment elevation and an urgent transthoracic echocardiography demonstrated no regional wall abnormalities. The rest of the echocardiographic examination demonstrated mild concentric left ventricular hypertrophy with overall good systolic function and no significant valvular lesions.
He underwent DC cardioversion performed under intravenous sedation and reverted to sinus rhythm. The ECG post cardioversion demonstrated no pre-excitation.