A 44-year-old male patient presented to the cardiology outpatient clinic with exertional severe pressure headaches and mild chest discomfort relieved after resting. The symptoms were triggered only by strenuous exertion like brisk walking or playing table tennis. He was a non-smoker and there was no past medical or cardiac history of note apart from family history of diabetes mellitus. However, he was noted to have hyperlipidemia on subsequent blood tests. Neurological and cardiological examinations were also unremarkable. He was investigated for the headaches by MRI and MRA of brain, both of which showed no abnormalities (, ). His random total cholesterol was elevated at 6.6 mmol/L and his electrocardiogram revealed normal sinus rhythm with no acute ischemic changes or evidence of previous infarction.
He was further investigated for suspected CAD with an exercise tolerance test, which showed non-diagnostic lateral ST segment depression associated with pressure headaches and chest discomfort, which resolved in few minutes during recovery. We therefore proceeded with coronary angiography which showed chronic total occlusion in the proximal left anterior descending (LAD) with normal left circumflex (LCX) and right coronary artery (RCA) (). The LAD was successfully treated with a single drug eluting stent with thrombolysis in myocardial infarction (TIMI) 3 flow ().
The patient was discharged on dual anti-platelet therapy and secondary preventive medications in addition to life style advice. At 4 months follow-up, the patient remained asymptomatic and resumed work and usual physical activities. Follow-up post procedure exercise tolerance test was reassuringly negative at a high workload.
Two years later, he represented acutely with intermittent frontal pressure-like headaches on exertion relieved by rest without any associated chest pains or dypnea. His medications included aspirin, statin and a beta-blocker. There were no acute ischemic ECG changes and but given his previous history of CAD and CC, a 12-h cardiac troponin T was checked and it was raised at 0.026 μg/L (normal value, <