A 56 year old male patient was admitted to our clinic with complaints of shortness of breath ongoing for three months. He reported that the severity and frequency of his complaints had increased recently. On admission, the patient was orthopneic and dyspneic and described a feeling of constriction in the chest. He had no other atherosclerotic risk factors except for tobacco abuse. On physical examination, blood pressure was 90/70 mmHg and pulse was 130/min. Bilateral crepitant rales were heard along the lungs. The patient had 1 + edema in both legs. Cardiac oscultation revealed 1/4 diastolic rulman and a 2/6 systolic murmur at the apex and at the mitral focus. Electrocardiography (ECG) revealed T wave negativity on chest derivations C4-6. A venous blood sample showed hypercholesterolemia and a sedimentation rate of 81 mm/hour. Based on these findings, transthoracic echocardiography was performed and revealed a 44 x 31 mm mass in the left atrium. The mass was arising from the atrial side of the anterior mitral valve and was moving in and out of the left ventricle with each cardiac cycle and causing obstruction of the mitral valve (). Global systolic function was normal. Both atria were enlarged and pulmonary artery systolic pressure was 48 mmHg. Surgical removal of the mass was decided due to the size of the mass, stenosis in the left ventricular inflow tract and high risk for thromboembolism and sudden death. Based on the patient’s complaints, risk factors and ischemic ECG findings, preoperative coronary angiography was decided. Coronary angiography showed critical stenosis of the left anterior descending artery (LAD) and circumflex artery (LCx) and noncritical stenosis of the right coronary artery (RCA) (). Coronary angiography showed no findings suggestive of tumor vascularity. Ventriculography was not performed due to the potential risk of embolism. The patient was advised to undergo surgery for the resection of the left atrial mass and coronary bypass surgery. The mass arising from the mitral valve was resected and LI