A 77-year-old man is a victim of hypertension and diabetes under insulin control at our outpatient clinic. He complained of chest tightness and dyspnea on exertion for a period. He had a history of tobacco used but quit for decades. Echocardiography was performed on 2011 September and the result showed normal left ventricular function without regional wall motion abnormality. Due to frequent chest tightness complained on exertion and the symptom exacerbated. He visited our emergency department for help. At emergency department, CXR showed cardiomegaly. Cardiac enzyme was checked and it was within normal limit. Under the impression of coronary artery disease with angina, he was treated with dual antiplatelet therapy (aspirin 100 mg/day, clopidogrel loading 300 mg, then 75 mg/day) at emergency department and catheterization was suggested after admission. Three days later, catheterization was done and coronary angiography demonstrated left anterior descending artery (LAD) with critical lesion and left circumflex (LCX) atherosclerotic lesion. Angioplasty was performed and two drug-eluting stents (BIOMATRIX 3.0 × 18 and 2.5 × 18) were deployed on LAD and LCX, respectively, with clopidogrel loading 300 mg (). The hospital course was uneventful and he was discharged on aspirin and clopidogrel on the following day.
He was transferred to emergency room again at the noon on the next day after discharge, and he complained of severe acute onset chest pain with diaphoresis. On admission, his blood pressure was 150/96 mmHg, and pulse beats 110/min. His electrocardiography (ECG) showed ST elevation in leads V1-V5. Over the next 10 minutes, his blood pressure dropped to 65/48 mmHg with complete atrioventricular block by ECG monitor, and he was transferred immediately for emergency coronary angiography. After implantation of a temporal pacemaker, coronary angiography revealed totally occluded mid LAD and mid LCX at the same time, the site over the prior stents (). Balloon angioplasty restored Thrombolysis in Myocardial Infarction (TIMI