A 19-year-old woman presented with dry cough, shortness of breath, and pleuritic chest pain for 2 days. She denied fever, chills or other associated symptoms. She did not travel recently or have any sick contacts. Her past medical history was unremarkable and has had all recommended immunizations as a child. Her only medications included oral contraceptive pills. She did not smoke or abuse alcohol. Her family history was significant for myocarditis in her sister and her paternal aunt at around the same age.
The various patient parameters during the clinical course of this illness are outlined in .
The troponin I was markedly elevated at presentation and during the first few days of hospital course (). Further troponin levels were not obtained during the clinical course.
She had frequent premature ventricular complexes and was treated with Metoprolol. On day three she had ventricular fibrillation and suffered cardiac arrest with successful defibrillation and resuscitation. She was treated with 450 mg of intravenous Amiodarone and required mechanical ventilation. On echocardiogram, the left ventricular ejection fraction has decreased to 20 - 25% (60 - 65% at admission). The patient was transferred to tertiary care center for further management. Cardiac catheterization showed no evidence of coronary artery disease. Endomyocardial biopsy showed myocytes with no specific diagnostic abnormality and a Congo red stain was negative. MRI with T2 weighted and viability/scar imaging revealed diffuse circumferential, abnormal mid-myocardial and basilar epicardial edema and abnormal myocardial enhancement consistent with myocarditis (). Repeat MRI showed improving myocarditis. The left ventricular ejection fraction improved to 45% on pre-discharge echocardiogram 7 days after presentation. Patient was tapered off the Amiodarone therapy and remained stable in sinus rhythm. Patient was discharged only on Carvedilol (6.25 mg twice daily) and her course was uneventful on follow up at two and six months post discharge. The left ventricular ejection fraction has improved to 55% (at 6 months) on repeat echocardiographic evaluation.