A 78-year-old man presented to cardiology clinic with complaints of instant chest pain accompanied with instantaneous headache at the left temporal region of the head with a strike of lightning. He had been suffering from this complaint for one week. He denied palpitation, dyspnea, syncope, or presyncope. In his detailed history, he had no hypertension, diabetes mellitus, and smoking. He underwent coronary angiography one year ago because of an anginal chest pain and there was no significant stenosis in the coronary arteries. He had been prescribed acetylsalicylic acid 100 mg, atorvastatin 10 mg, and metoprolol 50 mg at that time and the patient was compatible with his treatment. Cardiac examination revealed normal blood pressure, normal heart sounds with a regular rhythm, and no murmurs, S3 or S4. The electrocardiography revealed normal sinus rhythm with a single PVC on the ECG record and during the electrocardiographic examination he experienced the same instant chest pain and headache attack again. During the attack, he had no neurological or gastrointestinal signs. Neurological examination and radiological evaluation including cranial tomography and MR were found to be normal, previously. Echocardiographic examination was within the normal limits and there were no abnormal findings in the blood tests. Then, twenty-four-hour rhythm Holter monitoring was planned and he was told to record chest pain and headache attacks time during the day. Holter monitoring revealed normal sinus rhythm with 80 PVCs most frequently occurring during the night time, synchronous to the patient's chest pain and headache attacks. The patient's average heart rate was 63 beats per minute. Metoprolol therapy was reduced to 25 mg per day and amiodarone therapy has been added to the medical treatment of the patient which were thought to reduce the frequency of the attacks or terminate it. As thought, his complaints significantly improved at the end of the one month and there were no findings of PVC on the ECG recording and rhythm Holter monitoring. He has been followed up and was symptom-free for 6 months. W