Three years ago, a 59-year-old male Moroccan presented to the hospital with a dyspnea, dry cough, and a chest pain that had started 6 months before. He had smoked about 30 cigarette packs a year. He was diagnosed non-insulin dependent diabetes 1 year before and was under oral anti-diabetics. He had undergone a successfully surgical intervention for priapism 4 years before the current episode of sickness. His sister is known to have a breast adenocarcinoma. Physical examination at admission revealed a patient with performance status according to World Health Organization (WHO) quote one, and dyspnea type II according to NYHA (New York Heart Association). The pulmonary examination was poor. Head and neck examination found a right thyroid nodule without clinical signs of hypothyroidism or hyperthyroidism. Chest and neck computed tomography (CT) scan were performed and revealed a tumor in the left upper lobe of the lung, in contact with the pulmonary artery (Fig. a: chest axial cup CT-scan pulmonary window). The pulmonary tumor measured 5.5 × 6 cm without mediastinal lymph nodes (Fig. b: chest axial cup CT-scan mediastinal window). The neck CT-scan showed one nodule in the right lobe of the thyroid plunging into the superior mediastinum measuring 8 × 4 cm with homolateral cervical lymph nodes (Fig. ). The level of the thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH) was normal. For the pulmonary tumor, we performed transbronchial biopsies. Pathological examination of the biopsy revealed an adenocarcinoma of the lung, positive thyroid transcription factor (TTF-1).
Other explorations conducted such as brain CT and bone scan and abdominal ultrasound were normal. We concluded a diagnosis of pulmonary adenocarcinoma classified T4N0M0 with a suspected nodule of the thyroid right lobe. We performed a repeated fine needle aspiration biopsy (FNAB) of the thyroid right lobe but the anatomopathologic results were negatives. We decided to performed a total thyroidectomy and lymph node dissection after extempor