A 46-year-old male came to the emergency room (ER) complaining of double vision and difficulty walking. The double vision started five days prior, followed by weakness in both the legs leading to a wobbly gait. The patient was evaluated by the neurology team in the ER. The patient had a mild upper respiratory infection about ten days before the symptoms started. He denied any diarrhea or tick bite. He had no urinary/bowel incontinence. His past medical history was significant for asthma that was well controlled by albuterol inhaler as needed. He had no surgeries in the past. The family history was non-contributory. He denied smoking, alcohol use, or drug abuse. He took no medication except the albuterol inhaler as needed. He had no occupational exposure to neurotoxins.
On physical examination, his vital signs were within the normal range. He was fully alert and oriented to time, place, and person with an intact memory. There was paralysis of left eye abduction on cranial nerve examination. Both pupils were round, equal, and slowly reactive to light. No facial muscle asymmetry was noticed, with no evidence of seventh cranial nerve deficit. The muscle stretch reflexes were 1+ in all four extremities, and the plantar response was flexor. The Romberg test was negative. There was no focal sensory or motor deficit in the coordination of upper limbs. The heel-knee-shin test was mildly impaired with gait unsteadiness. The unsteady gait was demonstrated regardless of diplopia. An ophthalmology evaluation did not reveal the visual and retinal change. Next day, the patient complained of worsening of all symptoms and had total bilateral external ophthalmoplegia and sluggish pupillary light reflex. The muscle stretch reflexes became 0+ in the bilateral lower extremities and remained so until discharge.
The laboratory testing revealed normal complete blood count, comprehensive metabolic panel, thyroid stimulating hormone, and cardiac markers. The urine toxicology screens were negative for