A 33-year-old woman was admitted to our institution for evaluation of recurrent left breast abscesses. Her medical history included postpartum depression and an abnormal cervical cytology treated with loop electrosurgical excision procedure. There was no personal nor family history of immunodeficiency conditions. She was an occasional alcohol drinker and a daily marijuana smoker. She worked as a nursing assistant at a local nursing home. She denied sick contacts, recent travel, and animal or insect exposure.
She had six previous admissions within the past two months with left breast abscesses for which she underwent incision and drainage in the operating room (OR), followed by antimicrobial therapy. During this admission, she reported a recurrence of left breast abscesses and development of new abscesses in her buttocks. Her review of systems was otherwise negative.
Physical examination showed a woman in distress with a blood pressure of 108/67 mmHg, a pulse of 103 beats per minute, a temperature of 36.6°C, and a respiratory rate of 17 breaths per minute. The left breast had a visible deformity and asymmetry compared to the right side. Multiple scars and packed wounds were seen (). There was no nipple discharge, retraction, or peau d'orange skin appearance. Induration and fluctuation were palpated; however, discomfort limited a further examination. In the abdominal area, she had keloid-like scars resulting from old skin abscesses (). Her buttocks and thighs had several areas of hyperpigmentation and dimpling (Figures and ). Palpation of these zones demonstrated induration, fluctuation, warmth, and tenderness. The external genitalia and perineal area examination did not reveal mucosal or skin lesions.
Intravenous vancomycin 1500 mg every 12 hours, cefepime 2 g every 8 hours, and oral metronidazole 500 mg every 8 hours were initiated as an empiric antimicrobial regimen. Plastic surgery service decided to perform left breast and buttocks incision and drainage procedures in the OR. New specimens were collected from both left breast and