Case 6 was a 59 years old non-smoking woman who presented with a tumour in the right lower lobe, confirmed as an adenocarcinoma with a bronchial biopsy. Pyrosequencing did not show any EGFR mutation (any further analyses were not performed as the patient was planned for surgery). An additional suspicious area in the right upper lobe was detected on a CT scan before surgery, and the patient underwent a lobectomy of the lower lobe and a wedge resection of the upper right lobe. The upper lobe lesion was also an adenocarcinoma. Both tumours were non-mucinous, 4.0 cm (lower lobe) and 1.1 cm in size respectively. They were regarded similar in appearance and the upper lobe tumour was considered an intrapulmonary metastasis (pT4). No lymph node metastases were found and adjuvant chemotherapy was initiated.
After four months additional mutational analysis on the existing material was performed in order to investigate additional lines of treatment as there was radiological suspicion of more extensive tumour growth in the upper lobe than initially suspected. Pyrosequencing showed an EGFR mutation in the previously resected upper lobe tumour, while FISH for ALK gene rearrangements was negative (a later IHC staining for ALK was also negative). It was assumed that the EGFR mutation was also present in the lower lobe tumour, and that the first pyrosequencing analysis on the pre-surgical biopsy had failed to detect it, being a newly introduced method at the time. As the disease progressed, TKI was given for four months but with continued progression with spreading also to the left lower lobe. A core needle biopsy was taken from the latter to investigate if an EGFR resistance mutation had developed, but unexpectedly targeted NGS did not detect any EGFR mutation. See Table for full NGS data.
In light of this, the tumours were again reviewed. The tumour in the right lower lobe had 75% micropapillary, 15% acinary, 5% papillary and 5% lepidic growth pattern and had a <5% mucinous component. The tumour in the right