A 73-year-old female patient was evaluated at the Head and Neck Surgery Clinic at the University of Florida. Her presenting complaint was numbness and swelling of her left mandible and an intraoral lesion associated with recurrent bleeding episodes. Symptoms were present for several weeks and had initially been presumed to represent an episode of sialadenitis by an outside provider. Her past medical history was significant for a thyroid nodule and no chronic medical conditions. She had no history of tobacco or alcohol abuse. Physical exam demonstrated a left mandibular lesion approximately 5 cm in size, with fullness of the gingival mucosa overlying the mass. A mucosal punch biopsy was performed and the histology demonstrated a pyogenic granuloma.
Computerized tomography (CT) showed an aggressive mass destroying the mandibular body (Fig. ) as well as enlarged pulmonary nodules and a lytic bone lesion at T10. Imaging also demonstrated a multinodular thyroid gland with minimal irregularity along the anterior right border. A 4.6 cm nodule was noted in the right thyroid lobe. Fine needle aspiration of the right thyroid mass was interpreted as a follicular lesion of undetermined significance (FLUS). Because the pathology findings were inconsistent with the CT scan, an open biopsy in the OR was performed. A mucosal incision was made over the mass and a biopsy was taken. The lesion was found to be extremely friable and bled significantly requiring ligation of the facial artery. Final pathology demonstrated FTC.
Multidisciplinary tumor board review recommended surgery followed by radioactive iodine and external beam radiotherapy. The patient underwent total thyroidectomy, neck dissection, segmental mandibulectomy, and bone-impacted fibular free flap reconstruction []. Intraoperative findings included a 10 cm thyroid mass of the right thyroid lobe that extended beneath the sternum to the innominate vein. A segment of mandible was taken from left angle to right parasymphysis, resulting in a defect from right lateral incisor to angle of mandible (Fig. ). Reconstruction was undertaken via a right bone-imp