A 57-year-old male patient was admitted to thoracic surgery department on April 17, 2016 for asymptomatic, newly diagnosed bilateral synchronous pulmonary nodules during health examination. These nodules were located in the left lower lobe, the right middle and lower lobe measuring 5 to 7 mm in diameter, separately, without obviously enlarged mediastinal lymph nodes, as depicted by CT scan in Fig. .
The patient suffered from mild to moderate dyspnea and cough during the winter for nearly 10 years. He had a smoking history of at least 40 pack-years, meanwhile, he had been working as a coal miner for 7 years before admission. His family and social histories were unremarkable. Thorough physical examination failed to identify any other suspicious lesions. Routine tests for hepatic, renal, and coagulation function were normal. Hepatitis B and C, and human immunodeficiency virus tests were negative. In addition, the serum tumor markers including carcinoembryonic antigen, cytokeratin 19 fragment, squamous cell carcinoma, neuron-specific enolase, alpha fetal protein, and carbohydrate antigen (CA125, CA19-9) were all in normal range. Cardiopulmonary function tests indicated moderate compromised pulmonary function [forced expiratory volume (FEV1) = 1.8 L, FEV1% = 65%, and forced vital capacity (FVC) = 3.2 L]. The cranial magnetic resonance, abdominal CT, and bone emission computed tomography of the patient excluded other suspicious lesions. Besides, the score of Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group Performance Status of the patient was 1. Positron emission tomography as a reasonable choice for staging was not performed, because it was not covered by health insurance and expensive.
The newly emerged GGNs without calcification were just suspicious of malignancy. Nevertheless, if the GGNs enlarge and metastasize during observation, and turned out to be malignant, the patient would not tolerate radical lobectomy because of compromised pulmonary function. Therefore, resection and frozen pathology were recommended empirically to avoid delayed diagnosis. Fine-needle aspiration cytology before surgery was avoided