A 33-year-old Nepalese man presented to our department of neurology in a university hospital for evaluation of an acute-onset flaccid paraplegia in the background of a 10-day history of headache and puffiness of the face.
Ten days prior to his presentation to our hospital, he had sudden onset, unilateral right-sided headache that later became generalized. He developed facial puffiness concomitant with headache that gradually progressed to involve his lower limbs. This was associated with shortness of breath on exertion, but without cough, fever, and decreased urinary output. For these complaints, he was initially evaluated at a local medical center. During his stay at the center, on his eighth day of admission, he developed stiffness of the neck for which he underwent lumbar puncture. The lumbar puncture yielded a bloody tap. He was then referred to our center for further evaluation.
During his transfer from the local medical center to our hospital, he developed a sudden onset weakness of both lower limbs with loss of sensation. He presented with all of these symptoms at our center 10 days after the onset of headache. The loss of sensation gradually spread up to the level of his xiphisternum. He also developed severe back pain in his mid-thoracic region. He gave no history of weakness or any sensory disturbances involving his upper limbs. However, there was a history of both bowel and urinary incontinence. There was no history of loss of consciousness, altered sensorium, or seizures. He did not have any ocular symptoms at presentation. There was no evidence of a recent respiratory or gastrointestinal tract infection prior to the development of lower limb weakness. He had no history of alcohol intake or tobacco smoking. There was also no history of chronic medical illness.
His higher mental functions and cranial nerves examination were normal. Visual acuity and fundal examination were also normal. Muscle strength was intact in his upper limbs. Muscle tone was decreased in both lower limbs. Power across all major muscle groups in his lower