A 31-year-old Bosnian male with an unremarkable health history was originally seen in early October 2015 at a walk-in medical clinic after he noticed a change in his voice for 3 weeks. The patient had no smoking history, no prior occupational exposures, was an infrequent social drinker and worked as an assistant manager at a convenience store. Initially he thought the hoarseness was secondary to an upper respiratory tract infection and surprisingly did not notice the neck mass until it was pointed out to him (Fig. ). The physician who examined him at the time felt a large mass in the left anterior portion of the neck and followed up with a neck ultrasound. The neck ultrasound was unremarkable revealing a homogeneous thyroid gland with no solid or cystic soft tissue masses along with normal appearing lymph nodes on both sides of the neck.
Two days later he presented to the emergency department because of increasing hoarseness and mild dysphagia. The department of Otolaryngology Head and Neck Surgery was consulted. At the time of consultation, the patient appeared to be in no airway distress and had normal vital signs. On physical examination, a palpable mass was felt on the left side of the neck. The rest of the head and neck examination was unremarkable. Laboratory investigations were ordered and included CBC, serum ionized calcium, thyroid stimulating hormone, free T4 and T3 and calcitonin. These laboratory findings were all within normal limits with the exception of a slightly elevated T3 level. Direct fiberoptic nasopharyngolaryngoscopy was performed and revealed a supraglottic mass involving the left vocal cord causing immobility (Fig. ). The mass appeared to be submucosal in nature and did not affect the right vocal cord. He was then admitted for observation and further workup for diagnostic purposes.
A CT scan with contrast was performed and showed a 5 × 5.7 cm laryngeal mass centered on the left thyroid cartilage, which was completely destroyed (Fig. ). It displayed some central