The patient was a 29-year-old African American male without significant past medical history who presented to the emergency room with sudden weakness in his left lower extremity. While at work he suddenly felt lightheaded dizziness. Then, his left leg “gave out” while walking. Two days priorly, patient also had noted that his vision in his left eye suddenly became blurry, and his left hand clenched together uncontrollably and felt numb. Physical examination was normal except for mild loss of sensation in his left forearm. Troponin I was 0.196 and hemoglobin and MCV were 10.7 gm/dL and 70.8 fL, respectively. Urine drug screen was positive for cannabinoids. EKG revealed normal sinus rhythm with early repolarization changes. CT scan of the head without contrast showed loss of grey-white matter differentiation in the right insular cortex signifying a subacute ischemic stroke in the right middle cerebral artery distribution. He was started on aspirin, clopidogrel, and statin and was admitted for further workup.
The patient lacked significant cardiovascular risk factors that often cause ischemic stroke. He was young and normotensive and denied a family history of early cardiovascular disease. He smoked less than half a pack of cigarettes per day and used marijuana recreationally. He denied any IV drug use. He was generally active, with his most recent episode of prolonged immobilization being a six-hour car ride two weeks prior to presentation. He denied any past DVTs or a family history of hypercoagulability. The patient's neurological exam returned to normal within 48 hours of hospital admission.
For stroke workup, patient underwent CT angiogram of the head and neck, which was normal. MRI of the brain with contrast showed abnormal signal in the right parietal lobe and other areas of small bright signals in the temporal lobe, occipital white matter, and right cerebellum consistent with multiple subacute infarcts (). Transesophageal echocardiogram showed an 8 × 5 mm pedunculated