A previously healthy 40-year-old woman was referred to us by an ophthalmologist who noticed anisocoria with a small right pupil and a dilated left pupil. She had no ocular symptoms and saw the ophthalmologist because of conjunctivitis. She gave a history of flu-like illness that lasted about three months; that acute illness occurred five months before the eye examination and resolved eventually without any treatment. No diagnosis was made at that time. She did not complain of difficulties with her vision and could read without difficulty. She denied fever, fatigue, dizzy spells, tachycardia, syncope, recurrent vomiting, dry mouth, rhinitis, dry eyes, constipation, or bladder symptoms. She did not complain of lack of sweating (anhidrosis) or hyperhidrosis and tolerated well changes of temperature. Her general physical examination was unremarkable. Blood pressure was 120/80 mmHg in supine and standing position, and her pulse was 65 beats per minute in supine and standing position. Neurological examination showed generalized absence of muscle stretch reflexes that could not be elicited with the Jendrassik maneuver. Several independent neurologists confirmed the absence of reflexes in the lower and upper extremities. Plantar reflexes were flexor. Romberg sign was absent; there was no weakness and no sensory ataxia. Careful sensory examination for touch, pin prick, and cold was normal. Position sense of the toes and fingers was normal. She could perceive well the vibration of a tuning fork (256 Hz) distally and proximally in both upper and lower extremities. Eye movements were normal. Her right pupil was 1.5 mm and had an oval shape, with no response to light (); the left pupil measured about 6 mm and responded very poorly to light. The response to light of the left pupil was segmentary with a slight response of the right superior segment. Both responded poorly to accommodation although the left pupil remained slightly more miotic after an accommodative effort. The pupils