A 91-year-old Japanese woman presented to our hospital with hypoxia of unknown origin. She had a medical history of hypertension and atrial fibrillation. Eight years before, when she was 82, an advanced atrioventricular block was diagnosed after a syncopal episode and she received a permanent dual chamber pacemaker implantation. She underwent coronary computed tomography (CT) and radioisotope examination at this time, but there was no evidence of cardiomyopathy or of ischemic heart disease. The tip of the pacemaker lead was observed to pass through a PFO at the left ventricular apex; she received a follow-up examination because of no serious adverse event. She had no history of lung disease or tobacco smoking. She had no subjective symptoms associated with cardiovascular disease after pacemaker implantation. There was no evidence of a decline in oxygen saturation levels at that time, which were measured by pulse oximetry.
Her physical examination findings on admission were as follows: clear level of consciousness and severe hypoxia and cyanosis observed only in the right lateral decubitus position. These symptoms were immediately improved in the left lateral decubitus, the supine, and the upright position. Arterial blood gas values were consistent with her symptoms. Partial arterial oxygen pressure (PaO2) and arterial oxygen saturation (SaO2) decreased only in the right lateral decubitus position (Table ). These observations were reproducible. There was no evidence of lung rales or cardiac murmur.
Laboratory tests, including complete blood count, thyroid function tests, and D-dimers were almost normal. A chest X-ray showed a significant elevation of her right diaphragmatic dome.
An electrocardiogram (ECG) showed an atrium-sensing, ventricular-pacing rhythm with a complete right bundle branch block (RBBB) pattern (Fig. ). In general, when the pacemaker lead is set on the right ventricle correctly, the pacemaker first stimulates the right ventricle, and next the left ventricle. Because of this, the expected ECG pattern with right ventricle pacing should