A 22-year-old nulligravid Caucasian female with Angelman syndrome presented with a four-month history of premenstrual nausea and vomiting and abdominal pain. Patient had been hospitalized each of the prior four months due to these symptoms of cyclic nausea, vomiting, and leukocytosis which occurred approximately monthly and were attributed to a stomach virus. Gross hematuria was not reported. There is no family history of urinary tract malignancy. Family history is notable for pancreatic cancer and ovarian cancer in non-first-degree relatives. Her prior surgical history includes teeth extractions and arm surgery. The patient does not smoke, but her father does smoke outside home. An ultrasound of the pelvis was obtained during a hospital admission which showed a 7 mm echogenic focus along the posterior wall of the bladder. Urogynecology then evaluated her as an outpatient. On presentation to urogynecology with her mother (primary caregiver), patient was noted to be physically well developed and well-nourished and in no acute distress in a wheelchair. She had abnormal facies and mentation. General physical and abdominal examinations were normal. Patient was unable to tolerate a full examination in the office; therefore, the decision was made to proceed with an examination under anesthesia and cystourethroscopy. Cystourethroscopy revealed an estimated 1.5 cm papillary cauliflower-like lesion on the right bladder sidewall lateral to the ureteral orifice. Cytology revealed atypical urothelial clusters. Biopsy revealed low grade Ta urothelial carcinoma, negative for invasion of lamina propria, with muscle not present for evaluation. Immunohistochemical stains CK20 and P53 were negative. The pathology specimen was reevaluated and noted as low grade papillary urothelial cancer without identified invasion and without muscularis propria sampled. Patient was referred to urology for further evaluation and treatment. Urology performed a transurethral resection of the bladder tumor which was noted to be 1 cm on a narrow stalk. Complete resection of the bladder tumor was performed with mucosa around the stalk of the bladder tumor removed as well with no evidence