A 69-year-old African American female presented in February 2015 in our department with the chief complaint of gross hematuria and dysuria that started in December 2014. Prior to urology evaluation, she had received two courses of antibiotics without resolution for her presenting symptoms. The patient denied history of urologic trauma, nephrolithiasis, chronic Foley catheter, family history of genitourinary (GU) malignancy, or previous GU surgeries. The patient had a history of stage IA adenocarcinoma of the right upper lung in 2011 and a 20-pack year history of smoking.
Cystoscopy revealed a large complex bladder mass on the right lateral wall and right trigone involving the right ureteral orifice. Abdominal and pelvic CT scan revealed right-sided bladder mass involving the right ureterovesical junction, right hydronephrosis and right-sided pelvic lymphadenopathy. Transurethral resection of the bladder tumor (TURBT) was performed and pathologic examination showed a prominent inflammatory background with admixed high-grade undifferentiated tumor cells arranged in sheets with ill-defined cytoplasmic borders imparting a syncytial appearance diagnostic of the LEL variant of urothelial carcinoma (Fig ). Foci of urothelial carcinoma in situ were also noted involving the surface urothelium. Muscularis propria invasion was present.
Patient was treated with four cycles of neoadjuvant chemotherapy of gemcitabine and cisplatin. Repeat CT two weeks after the last round of chemotherapy revealed smaller right-sided bladder mass (6.1 x 2.9 cm vs. 6.9 x 3.4 cm). Two months after the last round of chemotherapy, the patient underwent a radical cystectomy with ileal conduit diversion and pelvic lymph node dissection in July 2015. The operation was complicated by extensive adhesions from previous appendectomy, hysterectomy, and hernia repair with ventral mesh placement necessitating small bowel resection.
Final pathology report showed three high-grade tumor foci in the bladder with the largest being high-grade urothelial carcinoma located in the right lateral wall measuring 2.8 cm, another tumor located in the posterior wall measuring