A 40-year-old man, who was a known case of systemic hypertension for 13 years, was referred to our liver clinic for evaluation of progressive darkening of skin over the face for four years and altered sleep pattern for six months associated with recent onset intermittent memory loss. He did not smoke or abuse alcohol and had no family history of liver disease. Six years ago, he started noticing recurrent painful oro-mucosal ulcerations that lasted for few weeks and were self-limiting. These were sometimes associated with painful ulcers over the glans penis that were self-limiting too.
Two years ago, he developed recurrent crops of reddish nodular lesions over both legs that healed with hyperpigmentation leading to extensive darkening of the skin and scarring over the anterior aspect of the lower limbs. There were no symptoms associated with ocular, central or peripheral nervous and gastrointestinal systems. Since the last four years, the patient had been noticing darkening of the skin over the face and his wife started noticing that the patient was being forgetful. His sleep pattern was affected with difficulty in falling asleep and recurrent nocturnal awakenings. For these symptoms, he visited a physician who ran some tests and performed an ultrasound imaging of the abdomen, diagnosing him to have chronic liver disease and grade one hepatic encephalopathy. He was then referred to a specialist who diagnosed him with non-alcoholic fatty liver disease related cirrhosis with hepatic encephalopathy; upper gastrointestinal endoscopy done at the time did not reveal varices. In view of raised arterial ammonia (168 μmol/l, normal <47 μmol/l), he was prescribed ammonia lowering therapy. The patient’s sleep patterns improved substantially, but the oro-mucosal ulcers recurred with new onset leg edema after which he was referred to our center.
On evaluation at our center, the patient was alert to person and place, but not to time. Pallor was present, without icterus, lymphadenopathy or clubbing. Facial skin hyperpigmentation was evident