A 59-year-old Caucasian man with stage IV squamous cell carcinoma of the tonsil presented for evaluation ulcerated nodules on his neck and multiple erythematous papules and plaques on his proximal chest. The patient had no history of alcohol or tobacco use and was diagnosed with invasive squamous cell carcinoma of the right tonsil in September 2012. He was treated with three cycles of cisplatin along with radiation therapy to his neck and upper chest over two months with good response.
In 2014, recurrence of squamous cell carcinoma was discovered in his cervical lymph nodes. He was treated with bilateral selective neck dissection. In 2015, he developed severe dysphagia, and esophagogastroduodenoscopy with dilation was performed. Tracheostomy tube was placed due to airway compromise.
He underwent a second esophagogastroduodenoscopy with dilation three months later in July 2015 for continued dysphagia; during the procedure, an abnormal area on the posterior pharyngeal wall was noted. Subsequent direct laryngoscopy with biopsy revealed squamous cell carcinoma in-situ. However, the gross appearance of the lesion was suspicious for invasive disease; positron emission tomography–computed tomography (PET-CT) was consistent with local progression of his carcinoma.
In November 2015, he was treated with two cycles of carboplatin and paclitaxel chemotherapy. He was then transitioned to nivolumab; he received 16 cycles from December 2015 to July 2016. In August 2016, he was restarted on carboplatin and paclitaxel. After three cycles, the patient decided to discontinue chemotherapy in November 2016.
In January 2017, the patient presented to his otolaryngologist for routine tracheostomy tube change. He described a two-month history of a neck rash that was initially painful, had spread to his chest, and was vesicular in appearance. The otolaryngologist noted not only a malodorous discharge near the tracheostomy site, but also skin lesions that were suspicious for varicella zoster virus infection. The patient was referred to a dermatologist for evaluation.
Cutaneous examination of the patient’s