An 86-year-old man was referred for echocardiography with a 2-month history of anginal chest pain of New York Heart Association (NYHA) class II without hospital admissions. The patient had a history of cigarette smoking for 20 years and systemic hypertension for 10 years. In addition, he had atrial fibrillation rhythm.
On examination, the patient showed no signs of cyanosis or clubbing, with O2 saturation of about 90% in air room. Chest radiography showed a globe-shaped heart, with normal vascularity and a cardiothoracic ratio of 0.5. Echocardiography revealed features of Ebstein’s anomaly with mild-to-moderate tricuspid regurgitation () and right ventricular and atrial dilation. The function of the right ventricle was preserved. The ratio between the area of the functional right ventricle and the combined area of both the right atrium and the atrialized right ventricle was 42%. The anterior leaflet of the tricuspid valve was enlarged but pliable with mild tethering, and the septal and posterior leaflets were significantly displaced (about 14 mm/m2 for the septal and 16 mm/m2 for the posterior leaflet; ). The left ventricle was of normal size and thickness, and the ejection fraction was estimated at 45-50% due to wall motion abnormalities in the septal, lateral, and anterior segments. There was a small patent foramen ovale, seen in contrast study (). Other interesting echocardiographic findings were bicuspid aortic valve () with no stenosis and only mild regurgitation and dilated coronary sinus because of persistent left superior vena cava. The size of the ascending aorta and aortic arch was normal with no coarctation. Coronary angiography revealed a long left main with 50% distal stenosis and significant proximal lesions in the proximal left anterior descending coronary artery and obtuse marginal.
The patient was candidated for coronary artery bypass grafting surgery, but he refused cardiac surgery. He was, therefore, discharged on medical anti-ischemic therapy (Aspirin, beta blocker, Statin, angiotensin-converting