A 51-year-old man was diagnosed with phospholipase A2 receptor (PLA2R) positive, primary membranous nephropathy. He was initially treated with prednisone and cyclophosphamide without significant improvement. The patient was subsequently started on tacrolimus and became calcineurin inhibitor-dependent. Due to a relapse despite being on tacrolimus, rituximab treatment was recommended. His past medical history was remarkable for multiple episodes of deep venous thrombosis on chronic anticoagulation, hypertension, and dyslipidemia. He did not have any previous cardiac history and denied any concerning preceding cardiac symptoms of chest pain, dyspnea, syncope, orthopnea, or paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea. The patient had a 33-pack-year history of smoking but quit two years previously. His 12-lead electrocardiogram (ECG) prior to rituximab treatment showed normal sinus rhythm. He worked as a carpenter and had been carrying heavy equipment at work without significant physical limitation. His family history is significant for coronary artery disease in his father at 50 years of age and dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM) in his brother. Due to significant cardiovascular diseases in his family members the patient underwent a cardiolite treadmill stress test which showed normal exercise tolerance and functional class I on Bruce protocol for 15 minutes. There was no evidence of fixed or reversible defect.
The patient was 179 cm tall with a body weight of 88 kg and body surface area (BSA) of 2.1 m2. Rituximab was administered at a dosage of 1000 mg intravenous (IV) at a starting infusion rate of 50 mL/h. Oral acetaminophen (1000 mg), oral diphenhydramine (50 mg), and IV methylprednisolone (100 mg) were also given as premedication. He underwent his first rituximab infusion without any immediate side effects. Forty-eight hours after the infusion, the patient presented to the hospital and reported having woken up from sleep with chest tightness and shortness of breath. He also had nausea and emesis. His physical examination was unremarkable with no evidence of heart failure.
A 12-