The patient was a 63-year-old man who presented with the chief complaints of swallowing difficulty, heartburn, and vomiting. Although he had begun to notice those symptoms 10 years previously, the condition had been followed up conservatively. He had noticed worsening of the swallowing difficulty, had also developed vomiting, and therefore visited a hospital near his home. Upper gastrointestinal endoscopy revealed two lower esophageal diverticula on the right and left walls, and he was finally referred to our hospital in December 2014. His medical history included hypertension and bronchial asthma; there was no history of smoking or drinking.
Upon admission, physical examination of the patient was completely normal. Laboratory findings, including complete blood count, erythrocyte sedimentation rate, and biochemical tests, were all within normal limits. An upper gastrointestinal contrast study revealed two diverticula with diameters of 7.5 × 5.5 cm and 3 × 3 cm on the right and left walls, respectively. The entrances of the diverticula were located in the lower esophagus, and the lower esophagus was sigmoid-shaped, and pooling of barium in the diverticulum, delayed passage into the stomach, and dilation of the esophagus were seen (Fig. ). Upper gastrointestinal endoscopy revealed the inlet of the diverticulum on the right wall of the lower esophagus at a distance of 34 cm from the incisors and another diverticulum immediately above the esophagogastric junction at a distance of 40 cm from the incisors (Fig. ). The esophagogastric junction was not well opened by air supply (Fig. ). A chest computed tomography (CT) scan showed food debris and fluid collection within the diverticula (Fig. , ). Intra-esophageal pressure measurement showed a high lower esophageal sphincter (LES) pressure of 98.6 mmHg, with a length of 29 mm, a vector volume of 23,972 mmHg2 cm, and normal peristaltic waves (Fig. , ). In addition, LES relaxation was not noted during the manometry test, but it was observed during swallowing.