A 15-year old girl was referred to an orthopedic surgeon with complaints of a consistent nagging pain in her left shoulder which were provoked by physical exertion and had persisted for over a year. Shoulder radiography revealed no abnormalities of the left shoulder joint, although a remarkable abnormal aspect of the left upper part of the chest was described, for which she was referred to the Pulmonology Department.
Additional patient history revealed limited physical exercise tolerance compared to her peers, mostly due to dyspnea and pain; she had no other complaints. She had no history of smoking or drug abuse. Her medical history was unremarkable except for a fall from a horse one year prior to presentation. The family history was negative for lung disease. Physical examination showed a female adolescent with diminished breath sounds over the left upper part of the chest. Oxygen saturation was normal. There were no other abnormal clinical findings.
Spirometry showed a vital capacity of 3.18 L (85%), FEV1 2.79 l (84%) and a total lung capacity of 5.04 (111%). High Resolution CT scanning of the chest showed a massive bulla (17 × 12 cm) of the left upper lobe (LUL) with compression of the residual lung parenchyma (Fig. ). There were no signs of underlying pulmonary disease or other congenital pathology. Laboratory tests were all within the normal range including the alpha-1-antitrypsin level.
It was decided to perform a robot-assisted thoracoscopic (RATS) lobectomy to resect the left upper lobe in this young patient, in order to reduce hyperinflation, and improve exercise capacity and exercise tolerance. Simultaneously this would reduce the risk of associated malignacy or rupture of the bulla resulting in a pneumothorax.
Surgery was performed under general anesthesia with double lumen endotracheal intubation and single lung ventilation. The usual antibiotic profylaxis was administered, amoxicillin/clavulanic acid 1000/200 mg intravenously. The patient was positioned in right lateral position, port