A 34-year-old man with a history of end-stage renal disease (ESRD) who underwent living related kidney transplantation in 2005 and had diabetes, hearing loss, hypertension, and mild developmental delay presented to the outpatient clinic with complaints of static encephalopathy (permanent or unchanging brain dysfunction) and worsening MRI findings of progressive cortical and subcortical atrophy, calcification of the bilateral basal ganglia and cerebellar dentate nuclei, subcortical white matter changes, and corpus callosum lesions. At age 12, he first noted bilateral progressive hearing decline secondary to a sensorineural deficit. At age 14, he developed non-nephrotic range proteinuria and underwent kidney biopsy that showed FSGS. He subsequently developed ESRD and required hemodialysis prior to receiving a living related kidney transplant from his father by age 24. Following his kidney transplantation, he developed steroid-induced diabetes. His kidney transplant course has otherwise been uncomplicated and he has had no indication for an allograft biopsy. At the time of his clinic visit with us, his mother noted him to have new behavioral difficulties, specifically disorganized thought processes with complaints of disorderly conduct likely related to worsening brain abnormalities and raising concern for an underlying genetic abnormality. During evaluation, the patient also suffered a stroke of the posterior right lentiform nucleus and posterior limb of the right internal capsule.
His social history was negative for tobacco, alcohol, or illicit drug usage. The patient was able to finish high school and attend a year in community college. He was the product of a normal pregnancy after a prior miscarriage. His family pedigree is illustrated in . His medications included mycophenolate mofetil, tacrolimus, gemfibrozil, esomeprazole, and vitamin D. He has no allergies. Physical examination was remarkable for a mild cerebellar gait, decreased hearing, otherwise all other systems were largely negative including normal retinal exam.
Laboratory investigations including lactate levels and other metabolic profiles were unremarkable. Whole exome sequencing revealed a mitochondrial MT-TW tRNA change at position m.5