A 41-year-old woman presented to the Emergency Medicine Department (EMD) with a sudden-onset left side chest pain of less than one hour in duration that started at rest. The pain was severe and radiated to the left shoulder. This was accompanied with symptoms of shortness of breath and sweating but no nausea, fever, cough, or similar episodes in the past. There was no significant history of coronary artery disease or any other illness in the family. She denied smoking tobacco, drinking alcohol, or illicit drug use. She gave a history of recent clomiphene citrate tablet use for ovulation induction which started 5 days earlier with no other hormonal therapy. In the emergency department, she was hemodynamically stable and her physical examination was within normal limits. Electrocardiogram (ECG) showed ST-segment elevation in the inferior leads (). No prior ECG was available for comparison. Immediate treatment with morphine for pain control, aspirin 300 mg orally, and clopidogrel 600 mg loading oral dose was given along with nitrate sublingual tablet and then heparin loading with 5000 IUs was started. Direct cardiology consultation was done according to the King Hamad University Hospital EMD Chest Pain Policy. The cardiologist on call directly started her on thrombolytic therapy and then contacted the well established cardiac center in the Bahrain Defense Force-Medical Service Hospital (BDF-MSH) for emergency percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI). Her cardiac markers and all other initial basic laboratory investigations were negative and within normal ranges, respectively. She underwent PCI which showed right posterior descending artery dissection extending from the proximal to the distal segment with Thrombolysis in Myocardial Infarction (TIMI) angiographic flow grade III (). All other coronaries were patent with TIMI III flow and no atherosclerotic changes. No stenting was done. Finally, the patient did well and was discharged from the cardiac center with conservative treatment including both aspirin and clopidogrel with follow-up appointment and no further assessment or investigations were done.