A healthy thirteen-year-old male, who is a competitive basketball and baseball player, sustained a closed, completely displaced fracture involving the medial clavicle after falling off an all-terrain vehicle. He was initially seen in the emergency department, placed in a sling, and referred to the orthopedic service for definitive management. The patient is right-hand dominant and does not smoke. He has no prior history of injury to the right clavicle. At the time of his orthopedic consultation, his pain was described as moderate and sharp localized to the medial end of the right clavicle. The patient reported no numbness or tingling in his arm.
Physical examination revealed a healthy-appearing, pleasant male responding appropriately and in no apparent distress. The pertinent findings on examination included no signs of cervical radiculopathy, no pain or winging of the scapula, intact skin, but significant tenting and swelling over the medial right clavicle, and obvious asymmetry of the right clavicle compared to the left clavicle consistent with a displaced fracture. The end of the clavicle lateral to the fracture site was displaced anterior to the medial component. The remainder of the physical examination revealed no additional injury to the upper extremity. Motor function and sensation were intact throughout the right upper extremity. The brachial and radial pulses were normal and symmetric to the left upper extremity.
Initial radiographs of the right clavicle revealed a fracture involving its medial end without disruption of the sternoclavicular joint (Figures and ). Subsequent CT scan revealed a completely displaced fracture of the right medial clavicle. The fracture site was lateral to the medial physis of the clavicle and without disruption of the sternoclavicular joint. The CT scan allowed for a more definitive characterization of the fracture pattern. Given the rarity with which medial clavicle fractures not involving the physis occur in the pediatric population, a CT scan was desired to provide this information and to help with surgical planning.
Nonoperative and operative