A 23-year-old African American male presented two months after an injury from a motor vehicle collision where he sustained bilateral femoral fractures and a cervical spine injury. The patient had undergone a prior occipital to cervical level five posterior fusion and bilateral femur fracture fixation under general anesthesia without anesthetic complication. Other than the trauma, he had no significant past medical history. The patient’s family history was not significant for cancer, hypertension, endocrine, neurologic, or renal issues. He also reported he had no history of alcohol, smoking, and drug use. The patient was not currently taking any medication and reported he had no drug allergies.
On the day of surgery, the patient presented with a stabilizing halo fixation device in place and underwent an anterior cervical discectomy and fusion of cervical levels five through seven and a posterior spinal fusion of cervical levels five through thoracic level two.
The patient was premedicated with 2 mg intravenous midazolam. All standard American Society of Anesthesiologists-required monitors were placed, and an infusion of dexmedetomidine was initiated at 1 mcg/kg for 10 minutes as a loading dose, per dexmedetomidine drug protocol. After 10 minutes, the infusion rate was decreased to 1 mcg/kg/hour. The dexmedetomidine infusion was then stopped after intubation, and general anesthesia was initiated with a propofol drip at 100 mcg/kg/minute, and a remifentanil drip was initiated at 0.3 mcg/kg/minute; both drips were continued throughout the procedure as a general anesthetic. A bispectral index monitor was placed to monitor sedation levels. The anterior portion of the operation took approximately four hours, after which the patient was moved prone with appropriate spine stabilization.
The patient’s urine output was 150 mL one hour into the procedure. The patient’s urine output began increasing in the second hour until the completion of the nine-hour, 20-minute operation, reaching 750 mL/hour. During the surgical procedure, the patient received maintenance fluid as