We present the case of a 28-year-old female with a past medical history of bronchial asthma who was transferred from an outside hospital for further management of systolic heart failure. The patient presented with chest discomfort and laboratory results showed an elevated beta-natriuretic peptide level and elevated troponin of 54.5. Heart rate on admission was 99 beats per minute, blood pressure was 118/69 mm Hg, and saturation was 99% on room air.
Electrocardiogram showed sinus tachycardia with nonspecific ST changes in leads II, III, and AVF. Transthoracic echocardiogram revealed an ejection fraction (EF) of 30% to 35% and hypokinesia of the inferior wall. She subsequently underwent a cardiac catheterization, which revealed clean coronary arteries with an EF of 20% to 25% and moderate diffuse hypokinesis of the left ventricular wall. She did not have symptoms suggesting a viral etiology. She did not have a family history of coronary artery disease or sudden cardiac death. Her past 2 pregnancies were successful with no cardiac complications. Further history revealed that she had been going through a difficult time and recently started using supplements to help her lose weight. She started using xenadrine weight loss supplement 1 month ago and took 8 tablets per day. Prior to starting weight loss supplements, the patient was ambulating without any difficulty. She denied paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea or orthopnea. She could climb a few flight of stairs with ease. She denied tobacco, marijuana, cocaine, heroin, or LSD use. At the hospital, the patient was advised to discontinue the weight loss supplement.
On presentation to our hospital, her urine toxicology screen was negative. A complete respiratory panel was negative, and an autoimmune panel including anti-nuclear antibody and anti-dsDNA was negative. Her beta-natriuretic peptide was elevated to 572 pg/mL on presentation. Her creatinine and sodium and other electrolytes were unremarkable. Liver function tests were normal. Complete blood count was normal as