A 35-year-old gravida 0 white American woman with a 14-year history of unprotected intercourse without conception secondary to PCOS and 8 pack years of smoking presented to an emergency room with a lump in her left abdomen and sharp, left-sided, intermittent pain of 2 months’ duration. She was admitted and a computed tomography (CT) scan and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scan of her abdomen and pelvis showed an 18×19 cm left retroperitoneal mass (Fig. ). Her body mass index (BMI) at admission was 29.9. She was discharged from the hospital and referred to a regional oncology service for further evaluation.
Two weeks later she underwent an endoscopic ultrasound that revealed the mass was compressing her stomach, pancreas, and esophagus. She had a fine-needle aspiration removing 60 milliliters of thick brown fluid with pathology showing only acute inflammatory cells. Staging CT scans were performed and there was no evidence of distant metastasis. A positron emission tomography (PET) scan displayed hypermetabolic activity at the periphery of the mass. Four weeks after her initial presentation, she underwent an exploratory laparotomy and decompression of the pancreatic mass yielding 2 liters of fluid. An attempt was made to resect the body of the pancreas but significant adhesions were noted and surgery was abandoned. The final pathology report was MCN and low grade dysplasia. A postoperative CT scan 2 weeks after her surgery showed the mass had increased in size to 20.3×15.1 cm with multiple septations. On a follow-up visit with her surgical oncologist her BMI was 29.1. At this point she was transferred to a centralized oncology center for surgical evaluation and management of the pancreatic mass with at least low grade dysplasia. Fourteen weeks after her initial presentation she underwent a Whipple procedure and splenectomy, removal of a retroperitoneal mass yielding 1.5 liters of mucinous material and an omental flap. Ovarian transposition was not performed. An 18 cm multiloculated cystic