A 74-year-old female retired healthcare worker presented with abdominal pain and vomiting following a left inguinal hernia repair performed 7 days priorly. Symptoms began two days after her surgical procedure. Patient had a seven out of ten nonradiating, diffuse abdominal pain localized to the epigastric region described as burning in nature. It was accompanied by fever, nausea, and postprandial vomiting, which was clear and mucoid in nature, sometimes containing food particles. She did not have bowel movements since her inguinal hernia repair. Upon further inquiry, the patient mentioned that she had a decrease in appetite for all types of food for the past 6 months and began limiting her intake to liquids because they were easier to tolerate. The patient also noticed changes in stool caliber and noted an unintentional weight loss of 25 pounds in a one-month span. The patient stated that laboratory tests were unremarkable. A stool exam was not ordered since patient had no complaints of diarrhea. She had an esophagogastroduodenoscopy performed four months priorly due to similar symptoms and the results were essentially normal. The patient has a history of osteoarthritis. Surgical history includes umbilical hernia, a hysterectomy in 2012, and a left inguinal hernia in 2015. Family history includes diabetes mellitus and breast cancer. Patient is a retired home healthcare worker who resides in Grenada six months out of the year and frequently visits the United States. Patient has no other significant medical conditions and denies use of tobacco, alcohol, or illicit drugs. In review of systems, the patient complains of feeling dizzy and experienced a severe bout of malaise beginning around the time she began to lose weight. However, no signs of fever, pruritus, or erythema were noted. The patient was asked about any distinctive food choices or habits and she states that she plants and consumes her own vegetables in rural Grenada.
Upon examination, the patient was an elderly female of the appropriately stated age; she appears apathetic and f