A 78-year-old male was brought to our department with the complaint of painful, progressive, and nonhealing ulcerated lesion of the tongue for 2 months. He did not give any history of fever, night sweats, cough, decreased appetite, or significant weight loss. There was no history of change in voice or choking. He did not give history of traumatic episode preceding the development of that wound. He denied any history of similar lesions in the past. He was a known case of hypertension taking antihypertensive medications. Besides having hypertension he denied history of other systemic illnesses including pulmonary tuberculosis. He admitted to smoking and drinking alcohol occasionally. The rest of his medical and surgical history was unremarkable. His past dental history was not significant. There was no history of TB in his family members. He was repeatedly treated in a local hospital with topical antiseptics and oral antibiotics (ampicillin plus cloxacillin and metronidazole) and analgesics but the lesion did not subside so he was referred to our hospital for the further management.
On general examination he was thin built with general conditions being fair, while, on examination of oral cavity, there was an indurated ulcer measuring 1.0 cm × 0.5 cm on the left lateral border of tongue on the anterior two-third part of tongue (). It was tender with irregular border. It did not bleed on touch. The remaining part of the tongue was normal in texture and color. Mobility of tongue was normal. It was not deviated to either side on protrusion. He had poor orodental hygiene along with sharp tooth adjacent to the ulcerated lesion although the multiple teeth were absent. There were no palpable cervical lymph nodes and no similar ulcers in any other body parts.
Provisional diagnosis of traumatic ulcer was made as the possibility of ulcer due to repeated trauma by the sharp tooth could not be ruled out based on the physical examination alone. As we thought it could be due to chronic trauma by the