A 57-year-old man presented with a history of worsening fever and hemoptysis refractory to antibiotic therapy. A bronchoscopy revealed a right upper lobe necrotizing pneumonia of unknown etiology. Gram, acid-fast bacilli, and fungal stains and cultures were obtained. No significant past medical or surgical history was revealed. His social history was relevant for a 50-pack/year of smoking. His vital signs were within reference limits with the exception of an oxygen saturation of 91% on 7L oxygen by face mask. His physical examination was significant for diminished breath sounds in the right upper and lower lobes. Laboratory test results revealed a baseline hemoglobin of 9.6 g/dL and a hematocrit of 29.3%. A dense right upper lobe infiltrate with cavitation and volume loss was demonstrated on chest x-ray.
The patient granted consent for a right-sided VATS with possible lung resection and chest tube placement. The anesthetic plan included placement of a 39 French double-lumen endotracheal tube. With his recent history of hemoptysis and a hemoglobin of 9.6 g/dL, two units of cross-matched packed red blood cells were available in the operating suite. A right subclavian triple-lumen catheter and a right radial arterial line were placed prior to his arrival in the operating room. The anesthetic plan was explained to the patient and included the risks, benefits, and alternatives.
Following induction, the endotracheal tube was placed and its position was confirmed by fiberoptic visualization. The patient was positioned in the left lateral decubitus position, and the non-dependent right lung was deflated. Approximately two hours into the operation, the pulmonary vessels were identified via dissection. During the dissection, the posterior descending artery was injured during an attempt to pass a stapler across it. Until this point, the patient had a baseline tachycardia of 100 to 110 bpm and was otherwise hemodynamically stable. Significant bleeding was observed as the suction canisters rapidly filled with blood. A significant drop in blood pressure occurred instantaneous