A 48-year-old Caucasian woman presented to a neurology clinic for progressive right upper limb weakness that had started 3 months earlier. Her major complaints were frequently dropping things from her hands, worsening handwriting, difficulty holding a spoon, and inability to do her job as a desk clerk. She also noticed some twitching in the muscles of her right upper and lower extremities. She denied numbness or tingling in the extremities and weakness of the bulbar muscles (dysphagia, dysarthria, and shortness of breath). She denied any neck pain; trauma; and constitutional symptoms such as fever, night sweats, and weight loss. Her past medical history included rosacea and dry eyes. She had undergone a cesarean section and plantar fasciotomy in the past. Her father had died as a result of heart failure. She reported no neurodegenerative diseases, neuromuscular diseases, or sudden deaths in other family members. She had no history of smoking or alcohol or illicit drug abuse and no known drug allergies.
On examination, she did not have any cognitive dysfunction, and the result of her cranial nerve examination was normal. Her motor examination revealed decreased strength in both proximal and distal muscle groups, predominantly in the intrinsic hand muscles with wasting and in the shoulder abductors. Fasciculations were noted in the right upper and lower extremities in various muscle groups. Her deep tendon reflexes were brisk with positive jaw jerk, Hoffman’s sign on the left, and bilateral ankle clonus. Her plantar reflexes were mute bilaterally. Her sensory system, coordination, and gait were unremarkable. Magnetic resonance imaging of the brain and the cervical and thoracic spine was unremarkable. The result of her autoimmune and paraneoplastic workup was negative, although the result of her malignancy workup was positive for papillary thyroid cancer, which was subsequently resected. An electromyogram with nerve conduction studies showed denervation in three body regions, consistent with the