A 64-year-old man with a history of smoking and rheumatoid arthritis (RA) presented with left hemiparesis, slurred speech, and left facial droop. His NIHSS score was 9. Initial CTA showed occlusion of the extracranial right ICA and a tandem occlusion of the right MCA (Figure ).
tPA was administered intravenously, and the patient was transferred to the interventional neuroradiology suite. Biplane digital subtraction angiography revealed a complete occlusion of the cervical right ICA at the vessel’s origin due to extensive atherosclerotic disease (Figure ).
The right MCA and right anterior cerebral arteries (ACAs) could not be visualized, and multifocal embolic filling defects were detected within the cavernous and supraclinoid ICA segments on microcatheter contrast injection past the carotid origin occlusion (Figure ).
Given the previous administration of tPA, a decision was made to attempt balloon angioplasty without carotid stenting of the extracranial ICA. A 6 mm x 20 mm noncompliant balloon was positioned across the occluded proximal ICA and inflated until adequate luminal patency was restored. The thromboemboli in the supraclinoid ICA and MCA were subsequently removed by suction aspiration using an ACE 68 reperfusion catheter (Penumbra, Inc., Alameda, CA) and a direct aspiration first pass (ADAPT) technique []. Post-procedural right common carotid angiography demonstrated complete recanalization of the right middle cerebral and right anterior cerebral arteries without angiographic evidence of complicating features (Figure ).
Angiography of the right common carotid artery demonstrated approximately a 40% residual stenosis at the ICA origin with no delay in the transit of contrast into the intracranial vasculature. A thrombolysis in cerebral infarction (TICI) score of three was achieved at the conclusion of the operation. Subsequent head computed tomography (CT) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the brain showed scattered infarcts in the right middle cerebral artery territory with multifocal petechial hemorrhages without frank hematoma. Compared to his initial NIHSS score of nine