In May 2013, the patient, a 63-year-old male retired truck driver presented with hoarseness of voice. He is an ex-smoker with a 30-pack year history and history of heavy alcohol use. Other medical history included depression, gastro-oesophageal reflux disease (GORD), hypothyroidism and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). Investigations demonstrated a left-sided glottic tumour and the patient proceeded with vertical hemilaryngectomy. Histopathology of the glottic tumour revealed a T3N1M0 SCC with micrometastatic involvement in 1 of the 25 resected lymph nodes. At the time of diagnosis, a positron emission tomography (PET) scan demonstrated no metastatic involvement. Following surgery, the patient attended annual reviews by his ear, nose and throat surgeon and did not demonstrate evidence of recurrence.
He re-presented 42 months later with a 1-week history of right lower quadrant pain and no other associated symptoms. Initial abdominal ultrasound demonstrated no abnormalities and he progressed to contrast enhanced computed tomography (CT) of the abdomen and pelvis. CT demonstrated a focal abnormality involving the pelvic-ureteric junction characterised by mural thickening and hyper-enhancement of the right renal hilum suggestive of a neoplastic process. The lower pole of the ipsilateral kidney also demonstrated a 3 cm cyst that appeared to be benign. The contralateral kidney and liver were unremarkable on CT.
He was referred to a urology team on the suspicion of urothelial carcinoma. The urology team performed right-sided cystoscopy and retrograde pyelogram with lavage cytology which demonstrated a normal collecting system and normal urothelial cells which made the differential diagnosis of urothelial malignancy unlikely. The differential diagnosis included renal cell carcinoma (RCC). He had no haematuria; urine microscopy, culture and sensitivity were normal, and there were no other urological symptoms. The opinion of the interventional radiologist was that a percutaneous biopsy of the mass was too risky given its proximity to major vasculature structures. The patient underwent a positron emission tomography