A 64-year-old man with a persistent pain in his lower front teeth, which made him dare not to chew for a few days, was diagnosed as pulpitis by his dentist. After a root canal treatment of teeth #42 to #32 [International Standards Organization Designation System (ISO System)], his toothache relieved a little. However, numbness on the left side of his chin occurred and progressed gradually to involve his entire chin and low lip. A month later, a throbbing pain with no trigger point attacked his chin, appearing several times every day, and lasting for hours. Chewing or touch could increase the pain intensity. The pain became so acute to affect his sleep. It was diagnosed as periodontitis and treated with antibiotics and analgesics, but the numbness and pain of the chin got worse. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the trigeminal nerves revealed a small vessel riding across the left trigeminal nerve and multiple patchy abnormal signals in pons, bilateral frontal and parietal lobes. To determine what exactly caused the trouble, he was then admitted to the neurology ward.
He had no other symptoms such as headache, visual disorders, difficulties in swallowing, and speech, limb weakness, or numbness. No weight lost in the past months. His past medical history was uncontrolled hypertension. He smoked 20 cigarettes a day for 40 years and only drank a little alcohol occasionally.
On physical examination, his teeth were black with enhancing accumulations of plaque calculus (Figure ). The oral mucosa appeared normal. His general physical examination was unremarkable with no cervical lymphadenopathy. Anesthesia was present over his chin and lower lip bilaterally while the sensation over the rest of his face was normal. His corneal reflexes and his bite force were normal. Examination of other cranial nerves and limbs including motion, sensation, and reflex was normal.
Hemanalysis showed normal in full blood count, erythrocyte sedimentation rate, plasma glucose, urea and electrolytes, serum C reactive