A 68-year-old woman patient was referred to our clinic following detection of abdominal aneurysm after USG examination. She suffered from abdominal discomfort. She was congenitally deaf and dumb. Other physical findings were normal. Her past medical history revealed occasional abdominal pain and constipation for the past 6 months. There was no risk factor such as hypertension, diabetes, smoking, or atherosclerosis. Patient was not using any medical treatment and had no history of trauma or surgery. There was no history of any systemic infections, family history of aneurysm, and connective tissue disorders. She was nullipara.
All laboratory tests were within the normal range.
A computed tomographic angiography revealed 14 × 10 × 9 cm sized regular bounded aneurysmatic expansion placed between pancreas tail, spleen, stomach, and kidney in left upper quadrant of abdomen. It causes compression on pancreas tale, probably splenic artery sourced and in close connection with distal part of splenic artery bifurcation ().
A selective angiogram was performed and showed splenic artery expanding to 6.5 mm diameter and confirmed the presence of true giant saccular splenic aneurysm arising from splenic artery and expanding to the superior (), after aneurysm splenic artery became rudimentary.
The patient was scheduled for endovascular intervention. Stent-graft implantation was not possible due to artery diameter being too wide at proximal portion and small in distal portion. Coil or glue embolization also was not possible due to wide aneurysm. Eventually, to close the feeding artery with vascular plug is decided. A right common femoral artery approach was performed under local anesthesia; a 7-French sheath was placed. A 7-French guiding catheter was positioned at the origin of the splenic artery over 0.035′′ × 260 cm guidewire. Splenic angiogram was obtained again and reference values were recorded by contrast injection. After 7 mm balloon expanded inside of the splenic artery over 0.014′′ inch floppy wire and long injection performed to celiac trunk.