A 37-year-old man presented to the emergency department at our hospital on October 2012 with a 4-month history of worsening lower back pain. There was no history of trauma or falls. He was unemployed and lived with his mother. He took no medications or supplements, did not smoke, consume excessive alcohol, or use illegal drugs, and had never been treated with corticosteroids. He had no history of prior fractures. Family history was negative for gonadal, endocrine, or bone diseases. Review of systems was remarkable for markedly delayed puberty for which he had received testosterone injections starting at 16 years of age. Three years later, testosterone replacement therapy was terminated by the treating physician, after he responded well in terms of growth and development of secondary male sexual characteristics. He remarked decreased libido for several years and absence of morning erections.
On examination, he was a well-nourished gentleman in obvious distress due to pain at the level of the lower thoracic/lumbar spine. He had an eunuchoidal body habitus with the arm span (181 cm) exceeding the height (174 cm). The pupils were round, equal, and reactive to light. Visual fields were normal to confrontation. The skin turgor was normal, the mucous membranes were moist and the teeth were in good condition with no decay. Examination of the head and neck was remarkable for hyposmia to a number of odorants. The cardiovascular, respiratory, and abdominal exams were within normal limits. There was no edema in the extremities and neurological assessment was normal. Examination of the integument was remarkable for sparsity of pubic hair. The penile length was normal but testicular volume was decreased (approximately 5 cm3 as determined using the Prader orchidometer).
On biochemistry, serum levels for luteinizing hormone (LH), follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH), testosterone, and estradiol were extremely low while baseline values for serum creatinine, electrolytes, thyroid function tests [thyroid-stimulating hormone (