A 73-year-old man, with no history of smoking, presented with a two-month history of progressive dysphagia. Fiberscopic examination revealed a large mass arising from the hypopharynx with normal vocal cord movement (). A biopsy of the tumor revealed that the tumor had features of neuroendocrine tumor suggesting pure SmCC. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) studies with intravenous contrast revealed that the tumor occupying the right pyriform sinus extended to the cervical esophagus with the right cervical lymph node metastases (). 18F-FDG-PET analysis indicated a positive accumulation in the hypopharynx and the right neck and no evidence of pulmonary primary or distant metastases. On the basis of these clinical findings, the final diagnosis was made to be primary SmCC of the hypopharynx classified as cT3N2bM0 (7th edition of the UICC and AJCC staging system). As the tumor completely obstructed the hypopharynx, he was not able to eat liquid food or even receive a nasogastric tube placement. Because he had been suffering from malnutrition and being at risk for aspiration, he was considered as a high-risk candidate for chemotherapy or chemoradiotherapy. As he desired to resume eating as soon as possible at the sacrifice of his larynx, total pharyngolaryngectomy with jejunal autotransplant reconstruction was performed. On gross examination of the total pharyngolaryngectomy specimen, 5.5 cm × 2.6 cm × 4.0 cm mass located mainly in the right pyriform sinus was identified. The tumor extended inferiorly to involve the cervical esophagus. Histopathological examination showed the tumor was composed of two separate patterns which were SmCC lateralized to the pharyngeal side and SCC to the esophageal side. SCC deeply infiltrated beyond the underlying muscle layer, whereas SmCC showed relatively superficial stromal invasion without the muscle involvement. Both tumor components showed clear boundaries, but a focus of gradual transition was seen. In right neck, the metastatic tumor involved 2 out of 11 level II nodes, 2 out of 9 level III