The patient, a 54-year-old female, is a known case of carcinoma of the head of the pancreas, which revealed being a periampullary pancreatic adenocarcinoma after histopathological examination. She underwent uneventful Whipple's procedure in September 2010 followed by adjuvant chemotherapy (carboplatin and methotrexate), with the last cycle being five years before her presentation. She has been on regular follow-up with oncology department without local or systemic recurrence.
In November 2015, she presented with a progressive painless swelling in the right parietal region of six-month duration. There was no history of trauma or previous head radiation. Before the presentation, patient overall health condition was stable with unremarkable history. Her social history was unremarkable and specifically negative for smoking.
Her physical exam and vital signs were within normal. Local examination revealed a hard mass of 5 × 6 cm in diameter with distinct edges, fixed to the skull.
The scalp over it was mobile and with no discoloration or discharges and no regional cervical lymphadenopathy. Neurological examination revealed a conscious, alert, and oriented patient without a focal neurological deficit.
Laboratory workup including CBC, renal, hematology, and hepatic profiles was within normal. Chest X-ray identified a small nodule in the left upper lobe.
Investigations also included CT brain, which demonstrated a lytic bony lesion with classic sunburst periosteal reaction measuring 4.3 × 3.1 × 5.4 cm (). The lesion was causing mild displacement of the adjunct cortex with no detected calcifications. There was no underlying vasogenic edema, and no other osseous skull lesions were detected. The cerebral and cerebellar parenchyma showed preserved gray-white matter differentiation, with no evidence of acute territorial infarction and no evidence of abnormally enhancing cerebral parenchyma or meninges. There was no midline shift, and ventricular system, basal cistern, and cortical sulci are within normal limits.
Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) demonstrated a right parietal hyperintense lesion in nonenhanced T1-