An 82-year-old man presented to the emergency department with chief complaint of nonproductive cough, chest congestion, subjective fevers, hoarseness, and shortness of breath on ambulation for 2 days. He had chronic mild neck pain, which had been treated conservatively for the past 10 years. The patient had a history of 35 pack-years of smoking, which was discontinued 30 years prior to presentation. His medical history included hypertension, type II diabetes mellitus, and peripheral vascular disease with claudication, benign prostatic hypertrophy, colonic polyps, and multifocal osteoarthritis.
On examination, the patient had a grade 3/6 systolic murmur and decreased breath sounds at the bases bilaterally. Additionally the patient noted a 6-month history of unstable gait and loss of hand dexterity as well as bilateral upper extremity numbness and pain. Spine examination revealed decreased cervical range of motion. Neurologic examination revealed diffuse upper extremity weakness and hyperreflexia in the upper and lower extremities. He had negative Hoffman and Babinski signs. He then underwent an extensive metabolic workup, which revealed an elevated white blood cell count, elevated troponins, hyponatremia, and elevated blood glucose. Auxiliary tests included an abnormal electrocardiogram as well as elevated right hemidiaphragm with full inspiration on chest radiograph.
The patient was admitted to the hospital with persistent dyspnea. On hospital day 3, he underwent cardiac catheterization, which revealed extensive stenosis of the major coronary arteries, which was believed to be the main cause of his dyspnea. On hospital day 5, he underwent triple coronary artery bypass grafting. Despite the cardiac surgery, the patient's dyspnea did not improve. In addition, he developed new complaints of generalized weakness. He continued to complain of chest discomfort as well.
Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and radiographic imaging of the cervical spine revealed extensive multilevel degenerative spondylosis with moderate to severe central canal narrowing from C2 to C7 and myelomalacia (
). The patient underwent C2–C6