A 33-year-old female smoker presented with left thigh pain attributed to distal femur osteomyelitis secondary to prior internal fixation of an open distal femoral fracture. She had two prior irrigation and debridement procedures, six weeks of IV Zosyn, and one year of oral Augmentin. She had persistent pain and the referring institution recommended above-knee amputation. At presentation, her incisions were healed; she had a knee extension lag of 20° and knee flexion to 90°. Her inflammatory markers were elevated with ESR of 56 mm/hr and CRP of 1.18 mg/l.
Radiographs and MR images at presentation (Figures and ) are shown and consistent with chronic osteomyelitis. She was taken to the operating room for bone biopsy/culture and operative cultures grew Enterococcus in broth. She subsequently returned to the operating room for resection of the most distal 19 cm of the femur. Intraoperatively, purulent exudate was noted in the knee and along the hardware. Her remaining proximal femur and tibia were reamed and a 12.5 × 700 mm Smith and Nephew intramedullary nail was placed. Gentamicin cement was packed around the nail and postoperative radiographs are shown ().
Intraoperative cultures grew ampicillin-sensitive Enterococcus, and she completed six weeks of IV Ampicillin, followed by six weeks of oral Amoxicillin. ESR and CRP were persistently elevated, and with the assistance of infectious disease, it was decided to continue oral Amoxicillin for a total of six months. Subsequently, antibiotics were discontinued and inflammatory markers were trended during a “cooldown” period and observed to decrease over time.
Five months following discontinuation her antibiotic therapy, the assessment was made that her infection had been cleared and she was taken to the operating room for planned reconstruction. Antibiotic cement and hardware were removed, and intraoperative frozen sections were negative for acute inflammation. A large Stryker GMRS distal femoral endoprosthesis with a rotating hinge knee was placed and her patellar tendon was found to