A 73-year-old female with a past medical history of hypertension, peripheral arterial disease, asthma, gastroesophageal reflux disease, and diabetes mellitus presented to our otolaryngology clinic with the complaint of a “nodule” behind her left ear. She stated that the mass had been slowly increasing in size over the last 5 years. It was described as nonpainful and she had never experienced any discharge from the area. Her only other complaints were decreased hearing, xerostomia, and hoarseness; no dysphagia or weight loss was reported. Past surgical history was significant for angioplasty and stent placement in her legs. Social history was significant for a 20-pack-year tobacco history. No significant family history was reported. On physical examination pertinent findings consisted of a left posterior auricular mass approximately 2 centimeters (cm) that was fixed and nontender. All cranial nerves, most notably the facial nerve, were intact. No cervical adenopathy was palpated. Nasopharyngeal laryngoscopy demonstrated arytenoid edema consistent with reflux but the true vocal folds were mobile and no other lesions were visualized. Treatment plan at that time consisted of smoking cessation and a computed tomography (CT) scan with contrast of the neck.
The CT scan revealed a multilobulated and cystic mass in the left parotid gland with an infiltrating appearance consistent with neoplasm. There was no pathologic cervical lymphadenopathy reported. The differential diagnosis at this time included benign mixed tumor, Warthin's tumor, epidermoid tumor, and adenoid cystic carcinoma. A fine needle aspiration was performed at this time and the results were nondiagnostic. The decision was made to proceed with a left parotidectomy.
Left superficial parotidectomy with facial nerve monitoring was performed approximately one month after presentation. A 2 × 2 cm lesion was removed from the tail of the left parotid gland. The gross description was an encapsulated, lobulated mass with a brown-yellowish coloration. The specimen was sent for analysis by the pathology