A 66-year-old male was referred to Niigata University Hospital after being found to have tracheal deviation on an X-ray obtained to diagnose the cause of dysphagia. He had a history of smoking and drinking for 46 years. A physical examination showed no significant findings, and laboratory tests, including serum tumor markers such as CEA and CA19-9, were normal. Endoscopy revealed an approximately 50 mm esophageal submucosal tumor, which was located 25 cm from the incisors (Fig. ). A chest CT scan showed a well-demarcated, enhancing homogeneous tumor measuring 51 × 41 mm in the upper third of the esophagus (Fig. ). No regional lymph node enlargement was observed. Endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS) showed a large tumor of low echogenicity in the esophageal wall, originating in the submucosa layer (Fig. ). EUS-FNA-mediated histopathological examination revealed a proliferation of spindle-shaped cells in a fasciculated, disarrayed architecture, with nuclei in a palisading pattern, followed by a preoperative diagnosis of esophageal schwannoma was made in this current case.
Given that the 50-mm tumor was located at the anterior wall in the upper third of the esophagus, we performed tumor enucleation using a cervical approach. We placed the skin incision in a longitudinal fashion along the anterior border of the sternocleidomastoid muscle extending to the sternal notch, which facilitates use of a combined transthoracic approach if needed (Fig. ). After transection of the left sternocleidomastoid muscle, the tumor was easily identified (Fig. ). After mobilization of the esophagus, the tumor was excised to include all esophageal layers (Fig. ). Although preservation of the mucosal layer with tumor enucleation is a less invasive technique, in our case, full-thickness excision was indicated because of dense adhesions between the tumor and the surrounding esophagus as well as thinning of the mucosal and muscular layers. We inserted an endoscope to act as a stent during transverse closure of