A 32-year-old Caucasian female presented to the emergency department with an acute onset of shortness of breath (SOB). Her past medical history was significant for recurrent VTE of unknown etiology with removal of an inferior vena cava filter due to misplacement. She had no family history of thromboembolic disorder and no past medical history of smoking or oral contraceptive usage. Her first episode of PE was spontaneous about six years ago followed by multiple episodes of VTE that required thrombolysis on three separate occasions. Her comprehensive hypercoagulable workup in the past included factor V Leiden mutation, JAK2 V617 mutation, Lupus anticoagulant, antithrombin III activity, PNH flow cytometry, factor II gene mutation, protein C, protein S, anti-cardiolipin antibody, anti-beta-2 glycoprotein-1 antibody, and homocysteine levels, which were all unremarkable. She had recurrent PE on many therapies including warfarin (with therapeutic international normalized ratio of 2.5-3.5), rivaroxaban, apixaban, dabigatran, heparin, and fondaparinux. She also had a history of rash secondary to enoxaparin making management more complicated. Her pertinent physical exam findings on presentation included hypoxia on 2 liters of nasal cannula with oxygen saturation at 96%, respiratory rate of 22 and decreased breath sounds bilaterally in the lung bases with no signs of deep vein thrombosis (DVT). A computed tomography (CT) scan of the chest with contrast on admission showed new pulmonary emboli on the right side.
At this point it was challenging to decide the next step in management since she had failed most known anticoagulants in the past. This also caused much physical, psychological, and financial burden on the patient due to recurrent hospitalizations over a short period of time.
The hematology service was consulted, and after a thorough discussion with the patient, rivaroxaban 15 mg twice daily was initiated since she had failed the 20 mg once daily dose in the past. Unfortunately, after about three weeks of