A 43-year-old woman with DS was admitted to hospital with a 3-week history of cough, shortness of breath after activities and dyspnea. The patient's motor and sensory status were grossly intact. However, her mental capacity and verbal response to commands were deemed consistent with those of a 5-year-old child. She was a non-smoker and didn't expose to tobacco smoke in her family or known chemical carcinogens for the lung, such as asbestos. And she had no known family history of cancer.
Clinical examination revealed pulmonary alveolar respiratory sounds were weakened in right lower lung. Pulmonary mass in right central lung, multiple irregular nodules scattered in bilateral lung and right pleural effusion were observed on chest X-ray. Contrast CT scan showed enlarged bilateral mediastinal lymph nodes, metastases of liver segment 4 and eighth thoracic vertebrae, third and forth lumbar vertebrae (Figure ). Subsequently, the patient underwent CT-guided percutaneous lung biopsy of the right lung mass. After the procedure, the CT scan showed right side hydropneumothorax, but the chest tube drainage did not needed. Pathologic evaluation confirmed the diagnosis of infiltrating lung adenocarcinoma. EGFR mutation status evaluated by allele specific PCR assays (SNaPshot) and PCR-based direct sequencing both showed exon 21 L858R mutation.
After a detailed discussion with the family and consent of the mother and sister, the patient was administrated with EGFR TKI- gefitinib at a dose of 250 mg once a day for the first-line treatment. The symptom, such as cough and short of breath both relieved after one week. Two months later, CT scan showed shrinked all of the primary and metastatic tumors and decreased pleural effusion. The principal complications of this regimen were 1 grade diarrhea and rash. A repeat CT scan after six months of therapy was performed due to worsening short of breath. The radiological findings consisted of increase in size of both of the primary tumor as well as liver mass and pleural effusion but not