A 46-year-old Mongolian male, married, migrant worker presented to our department of neurology in the university hospital for the evaluation of tingling sensation and weakness of right upper and lower limbs.
Two months prior to his presentation to our hospital, the patient had nausea, hiccups, and epigastric pain. These symptoms were not accompanied by vomiting. Nausea and hiccups lasted for a week and they were not so severe as to require medical attention. A week later, he started to develop tingling sensation over his right upper limb. This persisted for nearly five weeks without the development of any other symptoms. Two weeks prior to the presentation, the tingling sensation progressed to involve the right lower limb. The tingling sensation was eventually followed by weakness in both right upper and lower limbs. The weakness in his right upper limb progressed to his right lower limb within a day and, thereafter, remained static. For these complaints, he was initially evaluated at a local hospital. He gave no history of weakness or sensory disturbances involving the left upper and lower limbs. There was no history of bowel or bladder incontinence. There was no history of fever, loss of consciousness, seizure, altered sensorium, or neck rigidity. However, he gave a history of sudden onset left eye pain followed by diminished vision which subsided on treatment two years back. There were no documentations available regarding the diagnosis and treatment for the same though. He did not have any history of alcohol intake or tobacco smoking. There was also no history of any chronic medical illness.
Clinically, his general condition was fair and stable. There was no pallor, icterus, cyanosis, oedema, palpable lymph nodes, or dehydration. On neurological evaluation, his higher mental functions and cranial nerves examination were intact. Eye evaluation with fundal examination was also normal at the time of presentation. Motor examination revealed normal muscle bulk but decreased muscle tone in both right upper and lower limbs