An 82-year-old man with a past medical history of diabetes mellitus presented to the hospital with a two-week history of worsening shortness of breath, cough, and pain on the left anterolateral chest wall. Prior to this, the patient was only taking metformin for diabetes. He would visit his primary care physician yearly and had no previous lab abnormalities on routine examination. He was a former tobacco user but had no history of alcohol, or illicit substance use.
He was hemodynamically stable with an oxygen saturation of 90% on room air. Physical examination revealed decreased breath sounds of his left lower lung fields and exquisite tenderness to palpation of his left anterior chest wall with no crepitus. This area was mildly indurated.
Laboratory examinations showed a mild leukocytosis (11,700/μL) with normal liver enzymes and basic metabolic panel. HIV and hepatitis screening panels were negative. A chest radiograph revealed a dense opacity at the periphery of the left lung base concerning for a mass. Further characterization through computed tomography (CT) of the abdomen and thorax with contrast demonstrated a 10 × 13.3 cm soft tissue mass in the left anterior lower hemithorax, extending from the left anterior sixth rib to the external oblique muscle and left pericardium (). Furthermore, there were two exophytic masses in the left upper kidney and left lower kidney, highly suspicious for renal cell carcinoma. The visualized liver, spleen, pancreas, and adrenal glands were unremarkable with no masses (). A biopsy of the chest wall mass with subsequent microscopic pathological examination was initially suggestive of metastatic renal cell carcinoma. However, immunohistochemical stains subsequently showed oncocytic cells with endothelial cell wrapping staining positive for HepPar-1 and Glypican-3, specific markers for HCC [] and negative for CD10, CK7, and high molecular weight cytokeratin, markers of renal cell carcinoma [, ]. Additional immunostains showed tumor cells negative for PAX8 and a canalicular pattern with polyclonal CEA