A 32-year-old Middle Eastern man, who smoked 20 cigarettes per day and was an occasional alcohol consumer, with a family history of thyroid disease, presented to our emergency room with multiple painful anal lesions that started to appear a few weeks prior to presentation with occasional bleeding and purulent discharge. His past medical history was significant for diabetes insipidus 10 years ago after recurrent complaints of polyuria and polydipsia. At 26 years of age, he started complaining of non-productive cough and exertional dyspnea. A chest X-ray and computed tomography (CT) scan of his chest done at another institution showed the presence of bilateral pulmonary cystic lesions involving the upper lobes. He was misdiagnosed to have pulmonary fibrosis and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and was started on high-dose orally administered prednisone therapy 2 years later, then received daily budesonide/formoterol without clinical improvement. Four years later, a high resolution multi-detector CT scan of his chest showed massive honeycombing cystic changes of both lung fields with intermingled fibrosis in between. Findings were suggestive of histiocytosis X. A transbronchial biopsy of the lung lesions confirmed the diagnosis of adult pulmonary LCH (Fig. ).
On admission, physical examination revealed an ill-appearing man but he was not in acute distress. He was conscious and oriented. His vital signs were within normal limits except for tachycardia of 112 beats per minute. There were no palpable cervical or inguinal lymph nodes. Cardiac auscultation was remarkable for a rapid heart rate with regular S1 and S2 without murmur. Chest auscultation revealed bilateral scattered wheezes best heard at the upper lung fields. His abdomen was soft and non-tender. Macroscopic examination of his anal canal revealed a cutaneous lesion infiltrating the anal sphincter with circumferential perianal lesions and eroded ulcerative plaques over the anal orifice (Fig. ).
He was admitted for further evaluation and management. A laboratory workup revealed a normal white cell count 7200