The patient is a 68-year-old male, immigrant to the US from Iraq, where he was a sheepherder. He has a long-standing medical history of echinococcal hydatidosis and known hepatic cystic disease for more than 30 years. He had been treated previously with cystectomies and hepatic lobectomy in his native country. Prior surgical treatment was complicated by intraoperative contamination and dissemination of the disease to the peritoneum and pelvis secondary (). Repeat exploratory laparotomy for palliative control of the extensive peritoneal and pelvic cystic disease was not curative and he was placed on lifetime maintenance therapy with albendazole. Serum titers against echinococcal antigen by an IgG-ELISA and cross-sectional imaging when necessary were employed to monitor disease status and response to therapy. Patient also has a 50-pack-year smoking history but otherwise has an unremarkable medical history. A routine abdominal CT scan obtained in late 2008 to monitor disease status revealed an incidental finding of a right lung base opacity. Dedicated chest CT confirmed a 2.5 × 1.6 cm right lower lobe nodule along the infrahilar region with possible post-obstructive atelectasis (). Whole body PET scan showed high FDG uptake in the perihilar soft tissue mass with SUV of 7, consistent with primary bronchogenic carcinoma. There were no foci of distant tumor metastasis but FDG-avid hydatid cysts were noted in the peritoneal and pelvic cavities. A biopsy of the lung lesion obtained via fiber optic bronchoscopy confirmed the presence of non-small cell lung cancer, favoring adenocarcinoma () with clinical staging of T4N0M0 (AJCC 6th edition). Thoracoscopic resection was attempted but aborted due to intraoperative finding of direct pericardial invasion by the tumor. The patient was treated with chemotherapy and radiation using a sequential approach due to significant postoperative debility that made concurrent therapy unsafe. Serial measurement of echinococcal serum antibodies with an IgG ELISA assay (ARUP Laboratories, Salt Lake City, UT) was performed