A 59-year-old female with a past medical history of obesity (body mass index 51 kg/m2), autoimmune hepatitis, and osteoporosis presented to the emergency department (ED) complaining of right calf pain and swelling. She had no history of previous venous thromboembolic disease. The patient stated that the pain started after watching television for eight continuous hours. The following day, she noted persistent right calf pain. However, she was particularly engaged in national convention coverage and watched television continuously for approximately eight more hours. She recalls that she did not take any breaks from watching the convention; in fact she states she only moved from the chair once to go to the bathroom. After two days of mild throbbing pain and swelling, she decided to have family members drive her to the ED. After obtaining a history from the patient, she disclosed that she was having occasional dizziness and dyspnea on exertion.
The patient has a history of immune hepatitis which had been stable for years, treated with Imuran. Her surveillance liver function tests have been within normal limits for a while and she did not need adjustments of her medications. Her other medical history included hiatal hernia, sleep apnea requiring nighttime continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) machine, and osteoporosis. She had no previous surgeries other than a left wrist surgery 20 years previously. She never smoked and she does not drink alcohol. The family history was notable for Paget's Disease. She denied any family history of thromboembolism, bleeding, or clotting disorders. Other than Imuran and Fosamax, the patient did not take any other medications.
Initial vital signs showed blood pressure of 115/70 torr, heart rate of 125 beats per minute (bpm), respiratory rate of 18 breaths per minute, and temperature of 97.1 F, with oxygen saturation of 96% on room air. Her pain score was 5/10 and she was anxious. On physical exam, the patient appeared mildly anxious with obvious