A 37-year-old white woman presented to an out-patient Cardiology unit for investigation of dizziness. Following a review a 24-hour Holter monitor found her to be in CHB. This occurred on a background of pulmonary sarcoidosis diagnosed 2 years prior. Perihilar lymphadenopathy was evident on CXR and biopsy of a subcarinal lymph node demonstrated granulomatous inflammation. The sarcoidosis had not previously been treated. One year prior to presentation she had developed Mobitz type II heart block and a TTE and CMR at that time did not find evidence of CS. She also had a transient ischemic attack presenting as facial droop and myelopathy 3 weeks prior. A magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)/magnetic resonance angiogram of her brain did not find evidence of neurosarcoidosis or other abnormalities and a lumbar puncture showed cerebral spinal fluid protein of 0.76 with no white blood cells or oligoclonal bands. LV size and function was normal on TTE with no basal thinning of the intraventricular septum evident, and electrophysiological studies did not demonstrate inducible VT. Comorbidities included childhood epilepsy, type II diabetes mellitus, asthma, hypercholesterolemia, and tobacco smoking. Medications at the time of presentation were metformin, rosuvastatin, and aspirin.
Biochemical investigations including serum ACE of 24 (8 to 64), 1,25 vitamin D of 99 (60 to 100), and urine calcium of 6.6 nmol/L were all within normal limits. Dermatology and Ophthalmology review found no evidence of cutaneous or ocular sarcoidosis. A second CMR found normal biventricular size and systolic function and no late GAD enhancement seen in LV to suggest sarcoid involvement (Fig. bi). For the purposes of publication, the second CMR was subsequently reviewed by the same third party with specific expertise as used in Case 1. There was agreement that this CMR was within normal limits.
She proceeded to cardiac FDG-PET due to high clinical suspicion of CS despite two CMR scans within normal limits. Her BSL prior to scanning