A 47-year-old previously healthy female presented with abdominal pain and generalized discomfort over a span of 4 to 6 months. The patient had no exacerbating or alleviating factors. The respiratory, cardiovascular, and CNS system review was essentially normal.
The abdomen was grossly soft, with no rigidity or guarding. Upon auscultation, bowel sounds were audible in all four quadrants. On deep palpation, there was a mass in the right upper and right mid quadrant with overlying mild tenderness.
Her past medical history included nephrolithiasis and gastroesophageal reflux disease. Previous surgical history was significant for bilateral tubal ligation. Her family history was notable for bladder cancer in her mother. The patient denied taking medications or having any allergies. She was married, lived with her 3 children, and denied smoking, alcohol, and illicit drug use.
Due to persistent discomfort, she was evaluated by gastroenterology by an upper endoscopy, ultrasound of the abdomen, and colonoscopy which were all unremarkable. The preliminary labs included a CBC and a Basic Metabolic Panel which were essentially within normal limits.
Radiology work up included a CT scan of the abdomen and pelvis which revealed a 4.6 × 3.6 × 3.9 cm right paracaval mass extending to the right renal vein and artery alongside effacement of the inferior vena cava (). In addition, an enlarged and lobulated uterus was visualized in the pelvis.
A CT guided biopsy was performed of the retroperitoneal/pericaval abdominal mass, and multiple core samples were obtained. Initial light microscopy evaluation of the sample demonstrated evidence of atypical spindle cells however, the precise type of cancer could not be determined on this exam. The core samples were sent to pathology for additional evaluation.
A PET imaging scan was performed from the skull base to the mid-thigh with concurrently acquired low-dose CT for attenuation correction and anatomical localization. The scan showed a heterogeneous area of increased radiotracer activity in the upper right retro