A 39-year old woman, with a medical history of 20 pack-years of smoking, was diagnosed lung adenocarcinoma with liver metastasis in September 2009. Molecular analysis of the tumor revealed no EGFR mutation. She was treated with cycles of permetrexed (500 mg/m2) and cisplatinum (75 mg/m2) every 21 days from September 2009 to January 2010, with a stable disease on CT scan evaluation after 6 cycles of chemotherapy.
In January 2010, she had a persistent headache associated with photophobia and a progressive decrease of her performance status. Radiological explorations included a CT and a MRI of the brain and were considered normal. A cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) exploration was then performed, revealing the presence of carcinomatous cells, compatible with an adecarcinoma of the lung. The CSF protein level was slightly increased (0.47 g/L), whereas CSF glucose level was normal. Intrathecal DepoCyt® (50 mg) was delivered the 17th of February 2010, followed by marked aggravation of clinical symptoms and worsened performance status, despite oral prednisone intake at 1 mg/kg.
The patient was then treated with intrathecal injections of methotrexate (15 mg, day 1-5) and prednisolone 30 mg (day 1) with oral folinic acid rescue (25 mg 12 h after methotrexate, day 1-5) []. A cycle was performed every 2 weeks with repeated lumbar punctures. Four cycles of high dose methotrexate were administered between March and April. A clinical improvement was noticed after the first cycle of chemotherapy, with decrease in headaches, improvement of performance status, allowing the diminution of prednisone intake. Clearance of carcinomatous cells was observed on CSF exploration after the second cycle of chemotherapy and confirmed until the end of intrathecal injections. Treatment was well tolerated and no clinical or biological toxicity was noticed. Interruption of intrathecal treatment was decided with regards to clinical and cytological response after four intrathecal treatment injections.
At the end of intrathecal treatment, CT scan