A 26-year-old African American female presented with a progressively enlarging left inguinal mass for three months. The mass has been more painful and now presented with multiple areas of hemorrhage. At age 17, the patient underwent an uncomplicated pregnancy and C-section. Her C-section incision was complicated with keloid formation for which she underwent two doses of radiation. She remained asymptomatic up until she noticed swelling three months prior. She did not report any other trauma and her only other medical history was significant for a tubal ligation and appendectomy. She had no family history of previous cancer and quit smoking three months prior. Her review of systems was negative except for recent fever and chills. Her vitals were stable and her physical exam was normal except for the inguinal mass and slightly palpable bilateral inguinal lymphadenopathy. The mass protruded through the skin, was very tender to palpation, and expressed multiple areas of hemorrhage. It spanned about five centimeters in diameter along the left lateral aspect of a transverse C-section incision (). Her laboratory data was normal except for a microcytic anemia.
The patient initially underwent resection of the mass and given that a sarcoma was suspected, her wound was left open while tumor margins were obtained. The posterior tumor margin returned positive at three millimeters and a reexcision with subsequent wound closer was performed. The initial biopsy report suggested Ewing’s sarcoma/Primitive Neuroectodermal Tumor with findings concerning for melanoma. A EWSR-1 gene rearrangement and BRAF V600E mutation were then sent to confirm ES/PNET and melanoma respectively. A PET-CT revealed hypermetabolic activity with soft tissue stranding in the subcutaneous region of the anterior pelvis, bilateral pelvic and inguinal hypermetabolic lymph nodes, and a four-millimeter left apical lung nodule (, ). These findings were concerning for a metabolically active neoplasm.
The patient subsequently completed two cycles of chemotherapy with cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin and vincristine alternating with ifosfamide and etoposide. By this time, the