A 66-year-old Caucasian male presented with a palpable, painless slowly growing mass in the left side of the neck. He denied any local or systemic symptoms of thyroid dysfunction or neck compression. He did not report any history of radiation to the neck. His past medical history was remarkable for hypertension, hypercholesterolemia, and benign vocal cord polyps. He was taking verapamil, hydrochlorothiazide, atorvastatin and aspirin. He admitted to smoking 2 packs of cigarettes a day for 40 years and was a habitual alcohol user. Clinical examination revealed a firm, palpable, nontender nodule in the left lobe of the thyroid gland measuring 2.5 cm in diameter. The nodule was mobile upon swallowing. No palpable cervical nodes were appreciated. The rest of physical exam was unremarkable.
A thyroid ultrasound demonstrated multiple thyroid nodules within both thyroid lobes. The largest was in the left lobe, measuring 2.5 x 2.1 x 1.1 cm, and was hypoechoic and heterogeneous in nature. Fine-needle aspiration cytology was consistent with papillary thyroid carcinoma. Thyroid function tests at that time were normal.
The patient underwent an uncomplicated total thyroidectomy. The surgical and postoperative courses were unremarkable. Pathological examination confirmed a multifocal papillary thyroid carcinoma, involving both lobes and the isthmus. The surgical margins were negative. One anterior cervical (Delphian) lymph node was positive for metastatic disease (stage pT3N1a, stage III). A focus of metastatic adenocarcinoma was identified in the right lobe, characterized by glandular formation with central necrosis and hyperchromatic malignant cells. The histological and immunophenotypical features of this second tumor were consistent with adenocarcinoma of the colon ().
After this finding, the patient underwent a colonoscopy which revealed a mass in the descending colon consistent with adenocarcinoma. A Computed Tomography (CT) scan of the abdomen and pelvis revealed an 8 cm mass in the upper pole of the right kidney consistent with renal cell carcinoma. The patient underwent a left hemicolectomy, and a right nephrectomy.