A 64 year-old male with no significant past medical history other than hypertension presented with progressive gait imbalance and slurred speech over a period of 2 - 3 weeks. He denied any history of recent travel outside of urban Philadelphia, any sick contact or other constitutional symptoms. His social history was significant for smoking of one pack of cigarettes per day for about 30 years. He denied any history of hereditary neurodegenerative disorders in his family. Significant findings on neurologic exam included a severe gait imbalance, truncal ataxia, and dysarthria. A Brain MRI demonstrated a prominent enhancement along the inferior surface of the cerebellum along with diffuse white matter changes. A CT scan of the chest showed a large mass lesion involving the right upper lobe with mediastinal extension (). The patient underwent a CT guided fine needle aspiration (FNA) from the mediastinal mass, and transbronchial biopsy of the right lung lesion. The pathology was consistent with small cell lung cancer with endocrine features ().
A lumbar puncture was performed to rule out leptomeningeal carcinomatosis. Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) analysis demonstrated WBC 5, RBC 300, protein 85 mg/dL and glucose 60 mg/dL. It was not remarkable for any viral encephalitides such as Herpes or west Nile and CSF cytology was also negative for any atypical or malignant cells. The patient underwent a brain and dural biopsy to rule our leptomeningeal carcinomatosis. We performed biopsy instead of less invasive methods like MR spectroscopy because MRI findings like leptomeningeal enhancement was concerning for direct neoplastic seeding. In addition, other radiographic findings like white matter changes which are less typical seen in a paraneoplastic syndrome, made us to proceed a brain biopsy. The pathology was negative for any metastatic lesion or any leptomeningeal involvement. It showed normal cortical grey and white matter cells with no significant pathologic changes.
Extensive laboratory work up was performed to rule out collagen vascular disorders or any possible infectious or metabolic etiologies. Based on history and clinical findings