A 66-year-old male patient was admitted to our institution after he underwent follow-up in another institution. CA 19-9 levels were found to be elevated. He had no known diseases other than hypertension. There were no alarming symptoms in his systemic examination, such as weight loss, abdominal pain, hematemesis, and night sweats. He had no history of alcohol consumption and abstained from smoking for last 20 years, after smoking for 20 years. The patient was found to have chronic reflux symptoms, which did not regress with proton pump inhibitors. The patient had undergone a gastrectomy and a billroth 1 anastomosis long time ago. No pathological findings were observed in the initial laboratory tests; both biochemical parameters and total blood counts were normal, including hemoglobin, which was found to be 16.6 gm/dL. The tumor marker tests were renewed and CA 19-9 was 193 U/mL, carcinoembryonic antigen was 2 ng/mL, alpha-fetoprotein was 4 ng/mL, and CA 72-4 was 1.1 U/mL, which showed that the patient had an isolated CA 19-9 elevation. To rule out a possible malignity concerning the gastrointestinal system, a gastrointestinal system endoscopy and colonoscopy were performed. Endoscopic and colonoscopic examinations had no findings pointing to a malignity. A former gastric operation scar was observed at the upper gastrointestinal endoscopy and the lower esophageal sphincter was found to be relaxed, explaining the reflux symptoms. To rule out a possible pancreatobiliary system malignity, abdominal computerized tomography and magnetic resonance cholangiopancreatography were performed, but no findings related to a malignity that can be at the pancreas or the biliary system were observed in the radiological imaging. As the patient had persistent CA 19-9 elevation with no pathological findings to explain this situation, a follow-up was initiated. As the patient had severe reflux symptoms, during the next 5 years, three gastrointestinal endoscopies were performed. In the endoscopic examination, similar findings were observed with the prior