A 55-year-old man presented to the emergency department (ED) with chief complains of abdominal pain. He suffered sudden upper abdominal pain with nausea and vomiting. The pain was severe and the patient had to keep a curled up posture to relieve the pain. He had progression of his pain through to the back and subjective sensation of abdominal distention. His past medical history included hypertension, hyperlipidemia, and cerebral infraction. He suffered ischemic cerebral infraction 4 years ago and recovered without limb dyskinesia. He had no other antecedent history. He denied use of tobacco or alcohol. There were no medication changes recently. Review of systems was generally unremarkable, and he specifically denied stool changes or other associations. He denied any trauma. Vital signs were remarkable for a blood pressure of 116/70 mm Hg with a heart rate of 92 beats/min. He had upper abdominal tenderness with absence of bowel sounds. His blood pressure remained stable. Hemoglobin was 10.2 g/dL with a hematocrit of 37.5%. Serum amylase was elevated at 150 U/L (normal 30–110 U/L). Serum lipase was elevated at 696 (normal 23–300 U/L). The other chemistry studies were essentially normal. Coagulation studies were all within the normal range. Due to the patient's body habitus and bowel gas, there were no positive signs in sonography. Considering the feature of abdominal pain with radiation to the back and the history of cerebrovascular apoplexy, the visceral vascular disease was highly suspected. Because the patient remained hemodynamically stable, he was sent for an abdominal enhanced computed tomography (CT) scan. The enhanced CT scan was negative for abdominal aneurysm, but showed a 12 cm mass with extravasation of the contrast medium (Figs. and ). There was no fluid in the peritoneal cavity. The results of this scan showed retroperitoneal hematoma around the head of pancreas and duodenum. Then the patient accepted angiography, which revealed synchronous bleeding of GDA and