A 64-year-old right handed male with a university degree in arts presented to the neurology service with the chief medical complaint of behavioral changes slowly progressing over the course of the past seven years. Initially the patient experienced an insidious onset of decline in work productivity and gradually stopped working within the space of a year. Meanwhile, his family also noticed a short-term memory deficit primarily evidenced by difficulty remembering messages he was supposed to give to his wife, as well as not being able to name some specific objects. In the ensuing years the symptoms kept worsening while new behavioral and motor changes such as apathy, irritability, aggressiveness, delusional thoughts, psychomotor and gait slowing were contributing to progressive cognitive impairment. There were also reports of paroxysmal events characterized by self-limited episodes of experiencing unpleasant smells that lasted for seconds to a few minutes.
The patient had consulted several physicians during the course of the disease. He was diagnosed with bipolar disorder by a psychiatrist with the report of accelerated thinking at the time, and was treated with olanzapine and valproate without any significant improvement. A neurosurgeon diagnosed normal pressure hydrocephalus and performed a ventriculoperitoneal shunt with no apparent symptomatic relief.
At a later stage, he presented to the Neurology Department of the University of São Paulo with the main complaint of worsening delusional thoughts. The patient stated that his wife had been substituted by a perfect copy of herself, that the house he was living in only resembled his original property, and the city's most famous avenue had been duplicated in two identical copies.
Past medical history was relevant for Pulmonary Abscess, Hypertension, Depression, Diabetes and former tobacco and alcohol abuse. He had an unremarkable family history. Prescribed medications were Carbamazepine, Olanzapine, Sertraline and Clonazepam.
Neurological examination was remarkable for a cognitive impairment characterized by dysexecutive syndrome (inappropriate digit span