A 56-year-old, nulliparous woman, with previous surgical history of an open paraumbilical hernia repair without the use of prosthetic mesh a year ago was referred due to diffuse abdominal pain. The patient was on antipsychotic medication for schizophrenia, a heavy current smoker (30 pack/years) and morbidly obese (body mass index 35). Patient's mental capacity was assessed using the legally relevant criteria, and she was found to be incompetent. Therefore, her brother acted as decision maker and consented for further investigation and treatment.
The patient had normal pulse (85/min) and arterial blood pressure (130/82 mmHg), remaining apyrexial. She was initially assessed by the surgical team, and she was found to have an approximately 4-cm irreducible incisional paraumbilical hernia. The content and texture of the hernia sac were round and firm clinically. Tenderness was elicited with deep palpation, and an incarcerated incisional hernia was the initial working diagnosis. Routine hematological and biochemical laboratory investigations were unremarkable, and abdominal X-ray did not show any signs of small bowel obstruction. Lactate levels were within normal range.
Digital rectal examination identified a large painful pelvic mass and no signs of bleeding. A gynecological examination was requested, but there were limitations for further assessment as the patient was virgin, and she could not undergo a per-vagina examination. Considering all the above findings and body habitus, an urgent abdominal CT scan was performed. The latter showed a 15 cm solid pelvic mass with scattered calcifications originating from the uterus or adnexa suggesting a large uterine leiomyoma. The mass was extending up to the level of a sizable lower abdominal midline incisional hernia. The hernia sac was filled with small bowel loops on imaging. No free fluid or pneumoperitoneum was noted. The patient was discussed in our MDT with gynecological input, and a decision was taken to proceed with an exploratory laparotomy.
Of note, she was postmenopausal and