A 68 years old female, with a history of smoking habit, was diagnosed with high-grade muscle invasive urothelial bladder carcinoma after undergoing transurethral bladder resection for gross hematuria. The tumor involved the left lateral wall and the bladder neck. A positron emission tomography showed enlarged iliac lymph nodes and a neoadjuvant chemotherapy based on platinum (M-VAC: methotrexate, vinblastine, doxorubicin and cisplatin) was prescribed. No pelvic irradiation was necessary.
A robotic radical cystectomy, hysterectomy with bilateral adnexectomy, extended pelvic lymphadenectomy and urethrectomy with heterotopic Bricker urinary diversion was performed. Due to the locally advanced disease prior to chemotherapy a broad resection was performed including a complete urethrectomy.
The postoperative recovery was marked by a delayed vestibule healing and an inguinal hematoma that required surgical drainage. The pathologic examination retrieved a high-grade muscle-invasive bladder urothelial carcinoma, and a final TNM score of pT2 No M0 with negative surgical margins.
After one month of the surgery, an anterior perineal bulge appeared during efforts, increasing its volume during the following months. The patient had severe discomfort, despite not complaining of pain or digestive symptoms.
Upon physical examination, an anterior perineal hernia was observed between the ischiopubic rami, at the level of the vestibulum with labia majora bulging but without vaginal prolapse ( A and B and ). The content of the hernia was reducible and the skin covering the hernia had a diminished thickness.
A magnetic resonance scan showed a small bowel content at the level of the perineal hernia, without vaginal prolapse (). No radiologic signs of cancer recurrence were observed.
A multidisciplinary meeting was held and, based on the patient's discomfort, possible complications, and after patient's consent, surgery was scheduled.
Under general anesthesia, with the patient placed in a lithotomy position with Allen stirrups, broad-spectrum antibiotic provided, an infiltration of the perineal skin with a solution of lidocaine and 1% adrenaline was performed. Sub - cl