The patient is a 49-year old African American female G2P2002. The patient’s medical history is significant for hypertension and notably on an angiotensin receptor blocker, long-term cigarette smoker, pancreatitis, and mature cystic teratoma of the left ovary status post left oophorectomy a month prior to referral. The patient presented with persistent abdominal and back pain and with an 85-pound weight loss within 1 year. Imaging showed masses in the body/tail of the pancreas and uterus/right adnexa. Serum markers were within normal limits, except a minimally elevated human chorionic gonadotropin of 20 pg/mL. Given the possibility of a uterine or right adnexal primary, a total abdominal hysterectomy with right salpingo-oophorectomy and exploration of the pancreatic mass were performed. The surgery revealed a sclerotic mass in the body and tail of the pancreas that grossly involved the superior mesenteric artery (unresectable); therefore, the tumor was left in situ and pancreatic biopsy was taken for histopathology.
The hysterectomy specimen revealed a fibroid uterus. The mass adjacent to the right ovary was a benign subserosal uterine polypoid leiomyoma. The right cystic ovary was entirely submitted for histologic evaluation and was a mature teratoma. Histology of the pancreatic biopsy showed a high-grade spindle cell sarcoma and adjacent moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma ( and ). Around the sarcoma were a concentration of myofibroblasts marking with desmin and smooth muscle actin (SMA), and overall the background tissues were prominently fibrotic. Additionally, the hepatocholedochal lymph node submitted showed a focus of metastatic adenocarcinoma of 0.85 mm. Immunohistochemical stains were performed on the current and prior biopsy specimens (). The adenocarcinoma component was, on immunohistochemistry, compatible with a pancreatic primary (). The sarcoma stained focally for SMA, focally for desmin, and showed strong diffuse staining with CD10 (). The diagnosis of pancreatic carcinosarcoma was made.
After discussion in the multidisciplinary tumor board, the patient received chemotherapy with gemcitabine and docetaxel with