A 33-year-old African American woman with a history of omphalocele repair as an infant presented to the general surgery clinic with left upper and lower quadrant abdominal pain that radiates to the back, nausea related to fatty food ingestion, bloating, diarrhea, and subjective fevers. She had undergone an extensive workup with her gastroenterologist and was found to have cholelithiasis. Her past medical history included gastroesophageal reflux disease, anxiety, depression, and kidney stones. Past surgical history was significant for repair of an omphalocele shortly after birth. Her social history was negative for smoking or alcohol use.
On physical examination, she was hemodynamically normal, and the only pertinent finding was tenderness to palpation in her midabdomen. All blood tests were within normal limits including a white blood cell count and liver function tests. Abdominal ultrasound demonstrated cholelithiasis and sludge in an intrahepatic gallbladder located in her ectopic liver, but no evidence of gallbladder wall thickening or pericholecystic fluid (). Previous computed tomography (CT) scans demonstrated an ectopic liver located in the pelvis as well as an intrahepatic gallbladder and interval contracture of the gallbladder in subsequent scans (Figures and ). Magnetic resonance cholangiopancreatography (MRCP) demonstrated a relatively decompressed intrahepatic gallbladder in the pelvis joining the hepatic duct more superiorly with the common bile duct emptying into the duodenum, which has its usual right upper quadrant location (). As the patient had been symptomatic for several months and her clinical status did not improve during a period of observation and trial of ursodiol, cholecystectomy was recommended. The patient was consented for open cholecystectomy due to her unusual anatomy and likely need for hepatotomy to access the gallbladder.
At laparotomy, the liver was encountered just beneath the fascia in the lower abdomen and was adhesed to the anterior abdominal wall and into the pelvis. A small portion of the gallbladder infundibulum was identified in a cleft on the underside of the liver once it was rotated right