We present the case of a 68-year-old woman, referred to our department for critical upper limb ischemia, which had occurred a few days after homolateral surgical ligamentotomy, after diagnosis of Carpal Tunnel Syndrome (CTS). A few months earlier, the patient had complained of pain, numbness and paresthesia in the left hand, affecting in particular the first three fingers at night. She had no history of cardiovascular diseases, arteriopathy, diabetes, smoking, or other vascular risk factors.
She was clinically diagnosed with CTS, which was confirmed by electromyography of the left upper limb. A few weeks later, according to clinical and electrophysiological findings, surgical ligamentotomy was performed with a brachial tourniquet at a small local hospital. No complications occurred during the operation or after it, and the patient was sent home. The next day she returned to the hospital, complaining of extreme pain affecting the whole arm, but this was judged as wound pain and was medicated with painkillers.
The following day she again returned to the emergency department, with the same incoercible pain, together with initial necrosis of the first three fingers of the left hand. She was immediately referred to the department of vascular surgery at the reference hospital. Clinical examination revealed delayed acute limb ischemia, in the absence of brachial pulsatility. A thoracic and upper limb angio-TC was immediately performed, and showed complete thrombotic occlusion of the left axillary artery and the first tract of the brachial artery with its distal rehabitlitation.
An accessory cervical rib was found, completely obliterating the left subclavian artery distal to the origin of the costocervical trunk () and a post-stenotic dilatation (aneurysm) was found. This condition did not appear to be new, as many secondary and collateral circles originating from the axillary artery had completely altered normal vascular anatomy. An obstruction of the left brachial artery was found at the middle third of the arm, in exactly the