We present a 78-year-old male with a previous medical history of prostate cancer, which was treated with radiation therapy, who secondarily developed urethral strictures for which he had recently undergone a urethral stricture dilatation. He presented the following day with altered mental status, nausea, and lethargy. He had no previous symptoms of headaches or other neurologic deficits. He was physically active and had otherwise been in excellent health. His family history was positive for pancreatic cancer in his father. He did not smoke or consume alcohol. On admission to the hospital, he was hyponatremic with a sodium level of 120. After fluid resuscitation, his sodium normalized to 136. A computed tomography (CT) scan revealed a mass lesion in his right posterior temporal lobe for which neurosurgery was consulted. His encephalopathy improved and his neurologic exam at the time of consultation only demonstrated a superior quadrantanopsia in his left visual field that was consistent with confrontation testing. He was placed on intravenous steroids, anticonvulsants, and an MRI scan of the brain was performed, which revealed a 4.6 x 3.1 cm mass lesion in the right posterior temporal lobe with minimal mass effect and heterogeneous contrast enhancement (Figure ).
After a discussion with the patient and his family, the decision was made to proceed with an open biopsy after his hematuria had resolved. The patient had a CT scan of the chest abdomen and pelvis prior to discharge, which was negative for malignancy. The patient had an outpatient follow-up appointment with repeat MRI brain three weeks later, which revealed a progression of the mass, with an interval increase in size to 5.4 x 3.4 cm, with minimal worsening of the local mass effect and vasogenic edema while on oral steroids (Figure and Figure ).
One week later, the patient underwent a craniotomy for resection of the tumor. The initial specimens were obtained and sent to pathology prior to resection. The intra-operative frozen diagnosis was read as a hypercellular lesion with rare mitotic