An 18-year-old Xhosa-speaking South African male was referred to the Livingstone Hospital renal unit for evaluation. He first presented at the age of 17 years to a nearby hospital emergency unit with a headache. He was not on any chronic or over-thecounter medications, did not consume liquorice, ethanol or traditional medications and was a non-smoker. He was noted to be hypertensive, with a blood pressure of 216/114 mmHg and hypokalaemic, with a serum potassium level of 2.9 mmol/l (see ), but he left without treatment.
Eight months later he was seen at the same unit with a similar presentation and was admitted for further investigations and treatment. Despite multiple antihypertensive interventions, his blood pressure remained uncontrolled. At discharge he was commenced on the following medications: enalapril 10 mg 12 hourly, amlodipine 10 mg daily, furosemide 40 mg twice daily, atenolol 25 mg daily, hydrallazine 50 mg twice daily and hydrochlorothiazide 25 mg daily.
He was referred to our unit, and one month later his blood pressure was 179/118 mmHg in the left arm and 182/113 mmHg in the right arm, despite adherence to the treatment regime. He looked well, had a regular pulse rate of 59 beats/min and weighed 68 kg. The patient gave a history of experiencing frequent headaches associated with muscle fatigue, but no myalgias. The muscle fatigue was worse at times when the headache was present. He also described exertional dyspnoea but no spells suggestive of phaeochromocytoma. Both his parents were hypertensive and his father had died of an uncertain cause before the age of 50 years.
On cardiovascular examination, all pulses were present. There Division of Nephrology and Hypertension, Livingstone was no radiofemoral delay or any bruits. The cardiac apex beat was forceful and laterally displaced with an associated fourth heart sound. He had normal secondary sexual characteristics, and retinal examination revealed markedly reduced arteriolar diameter and arteriovenous