A 52-year-old female presented to our polyclinic with increasing pain in the left upper quadrant in the previous month. She had been treated for hypertension and had a hysterectomy 7 years ago due to a myoma. The patient had quit smoking 3 years earlier and was taking alprazolam 0.5 mg/day for an anxiety disorder. A physical examination revealed minimal sensitivity of the left upper quadrant upon deep palpation and an incision scar from the gynaecologic surgery. Nothing else of note was detected. The patient's body mass index was 32.5 kg/m2, and laboratory measurements were within the normal range. Endoscopy and a colonoscopy conducted to determine the cause of pain revealed no pathological findings. An ultrasonic evaluation revealed no evidence of an aneurysm. However, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) was conducted due to the presence of a hyperechoic lesion (53 × 39 mm in size) in the right lobe of the subcapsular area of the liver. The MRI study revealed a 35 mm diameter hemangioma in the liver segment 8 and a 40 mm aneurysm with a thrombus in the splenic artery of the pancreas tail region (). Tortuosity of the splenic artery, which had a proximal diameter of 1 cm, was detected. In angiographic multislice computed tomography (CT), minimal aneurysmatic dilatation was detected in the celiac truncus in the midsegment of the splenic artery, in addition to saccular aneurysmal dilatation, 50% thrombosed and in the size of 45 × 40 × 39 mm adjacent to the pancreas. A long segment of the splenic artery transection extended from the distal aneurysm to the splenic hilus ().
Following a consultation with the interventional cardiovascular department, an endovascular intervention was planned for the treatment of the aneurysm. Endovascular interventions made from the femoral region were inconclusive because of extreme angulation of the truncus celiacus, aneurysmal dilatation of the trunk, and tortuosity of the splenic artery. The patient was informed about the surgical procedure, and written consent was