A 51-year-old man reported to the department with a complaint of soft tissue growth in the mandibular left second and third molar region since about 15 days. The growth was small when he first noticed it and was associated with mobility of mandibular left third molar. He showed to a local dentist who extracted the tooth with excision of the mass. No histopathological examination was conducted on the excised tissue mass. Post extraction, the growth rapidly increased in size to reach the current size. Past medical history was insignificant. The patient also did not present with any habit of smoking and tobacco or alcohol consumption. General physical examination was conducted which revealed an otherwise healthy individual with a short and thin built, normal gait, and no history of any fever, headache, or weight loss in the recent past. The left submandibular lymph nodes were enlarged, tender, and fixed to the underlying tissues.
Intraoral examination revealed a 2.5 cm × 2 cm irregularly shaped, reddish-white, lobular, soft gingival mass on the left mandibular alveolar ridge in the region of mandibular left third molar which was tender on palpation and occasionally bled. There was no ulceration or surface erosion (). A detailed hard tissue examination revealed a poor dental hygiene with multiple root stumps and decayed teeth. Routine hematological tests were conducted which were within the normal range except ESR which was elevated. Panoramic radiograph revealed a well-defined arc-shaped osteolytic lesion with noncorticated borders extending from the distal aspect of mandibular left first molar to anterior border of ascending ramus.
The gingival growth was biopsied under local anesthesia, the findings of which were suggestive of proximal variant of epithelioid sarcoma (ES) (Figures –). Immunohistochemistry performed on the tissue showed diffuse strong cytoplasmic positivity for pancytokeratin and vimentin (Figures and ). EMA was strongly positive with membranous staining of the tumor cells in >75% of the tumor cell population (). All other markers of S100 (), desmin, CD45