A 75-year-old male with a history of hypertension, diabetes, and coronary artery disease presented to the emergency room following a syncopal fall from standing after using the restroom. His history of present illness was remarkable for several weeks of weakness and fatigue coincident with progressive dyspnea on exertion and intermittent dizziness though no concerning features of cardiopulmonary dysfunction or recent infection. Home medications included only metformin and low dose aspirin with no recent changes, a remote smoking history of having quit 20 years prior was noted, no additional substance use, and no personal or family history of malignancy or melanoma. The initial physical exam was unrevealing in examination of all major organ systems including dermatologically no rash, moles, or abnormal lesions were noted, no palpable lymphadenopathy was appreciated, and no physical maneuvers of the abdomen elicited abnormalities or tenderness. Initial assessment for the syncopal episode included a neurologic, pulmonary, and endocrinologic evaluation that did not demonstrate significant abnormalities and a cardiac investigation that was notable for a depressed ejection fraction to 30% and elevated troponins. Of note the patient had an initial anion gap of 22, hemoglobin of 12.8, and a lactate of 4.5. Given the patient also had an elevated TIMI score a heparin drip was initiated and the patient was observed to rule out myocardial ischemia.
On day two of the admission, the patient experienced two episodes of large volume hematochezia. He denied any prior rectal bleeding or risk factors for upper gastrointestinal bleeding. Esophagogastroduodenoscopy was performed demonstrating a mild hiatal hernia only. Colonoscopy was performed that demonstrated left diverticulosis with bleeding internal hemorrhoids and a 7 cm ulcerated transverse colonic mass occluding the majority of the lumen that was clinically suspicious for malignancy (Figure ). The lesion was biopsied and tattooed. Pathology revealed a poorly differentiated malignancy which was positive for Human Melanoma Black (HMB-45), Melanoma antigen (Melan-A), and c-