This 58 years old non-indigenous man had been homeless since his early thirties. He developed schizophrenia in early adulthood and retreated from mainstream life to live under a suburban bridge for the next 26 years, with minimal contact with the medical or psychiatric system. By the age of 55 years old his schizophrenia had “burnt out” but he was experiencing increasingly severe low back pain and leg weakness from degenerative lumbar spine disease. This significantly impacted his mobility and resulted in more frequent ED presentations. By mid-2016, his back pain and leg weakness rendered him unable to mobilise over any significant distance and his presentations to hospitals escalated further. Over the years he had also developed other health problems: severe COPD and hepatic disease due to heavy cigarette and alcohol use respectively and bladder cancer. Despite these issues and very limited mobility he was repeatedly discharged back to live under the bridge after brief hospital admissions. By late 2016, he was wheelchair bound and moved into the Perth Central Business District where homeless services such as food vans were in closer proximity but the risk of assault was considerably greater. He continued to present frequently to hospital asking for assistance with housing and his medical issues, especially his back pain and leg weakness. He scored 14 on the VI-SPDAT questionnaire in August 2016, which reflects high vulnerability.
Hospital use by this 58 years old patient for the 29 months period January 2015 to July 2017 is summarised in with the associated costs of ED presentations and inpatient admissions. They cost almost $250,000 over the 29 months period; 69 ED presentations costing $45,264 and the 84 hospital bed days adding up to $202,860 (based on IPHA R19 estimates). This does not include other admission costs such as investigations or medications.
In July 2016, the hospital Homeless Team connected this patient to the 50 Lives 50 Homes project. He was prioritised for housing due to his high vulnerability and frequent hospital admissions