A 16-yr-old female was referred to the Department Neurology Emergency, Qaem Hospital, Mashhad, Iran in 2013, because of left- sided weakness since two weeks ago. Informed consent was taken from the patient. She had a history of an upper respiratory tract infection one week before beginning her symptoms. She had no history for a specific disease and drug use, except some antibiotics for infection mentioned above, including azithromycin 500 mg first and then 250 mg daily up to 5 days. There was not any history of previous trauma. Her symptoms were started and progressed step by step. First, she had left arm pain with developing numbness. The weakness of the left arm and leg was appeared as well as the weakness of the ipsilateral face.
On neurological examination, she was conscious and oriented. The speech was fluent. Left central facial palsy was seen on her face. Her gait was hemiplegic, muscle tone was increased on the left side of the body, muscle power was 3/5 over left upper and lower extremities, deep tendon reflexes were exaggerated and plantar reflex was upward on the left side. There was no abnormality on her systemic examination including cardiac and pulmonary exam, no fever and no meningeal signs. So, after admission on our hospital, brain MRI was performed. According to the previous history of her upper respiratory tract infection (URTI), the course of onset the symptoms and brain MRI which showed right deep white matter lesions, it was not in accordance with the known vascular territories (). Thereby we initially suspected of a demyelinating process, and she received pulse methylprednisolone 1g/daily for 5 consecutive days. However, other diagnostic measures was carried out at the same time. The laboratory tests consisted of immunologic tests for vasculitis, hematologic (Hyper coagulative tests), and biochemistry tests which were all within normal ranges.
During her hospitalization, our patient gradually deteriorated. She experienced increasing difficulties with walking and speech as well as progressive hemiparesis to hemiplegia, so