A 75-year-old right-handed woman presented to the emergency department with headache and mental confusion 6 hours before admission. She had 5 years of formal education and was able to read and write perfectly. There was no prior medical history other than tobacco use for 50 years. Her family reported that she initially complained of difficulties in handling objects with her right hand and they noticed she was confused.
Initial evaluation revealed a blood pressure of 220 × 120 mmHg and a mild pronator drift of the right upper limb. She was alert and oriented, with no global attention or language abnormalities. Testing was positive for mild right spatial neglect with sensory extinction alone. Her score on the National Institute of Health Stroke Scale (NIHSS) was 1. The patient underwent initial stabilization and a Computed Tomography (CT) scan, which revealed only a residual calcified lesion in the left post-central gyrus. Interestingly, a more detailed cognitive evaluation revealed simultanagnosia (she could not integrate parts of the Boston Cookie Theft Picture or small letters into a global form) and unilateral right optic ataxia (). Moreover, the patient had agraphia, acalculia, digital agnosia and right-left disorientation, consistent with complete Gerstmann's syndrome ().
CT angiography showed diffuse atheromatosis, with moderate stenosis of 50% in the left carotid bulb due to an ulcerated plaque (). Diffusion-Weighted Imaging MRI revealed small hyperintense lesions in the territory of the left middle cerebral artery, predominantly posterior and cortical (). Serial electroencephalogram testing was negative for epileptiform activity, but there was a focal electrical slowing in the left hemisphere. After a complete neurovascular work-up, we concluded the patient had a stroke due to an evident large artery atherosclerosis mechanism.
The patient was treated with dual antiplatelet therapy and a high-potency statin at standard doses for secondary prevention. All cognitive deficits resolved spontaneously within 3 days of admission and