A 52-year-old male with a 5-week history of severe headaches was admitted after he had a syncopal episode while at home. He found himself down on the ground, and he was unaware of the initiating circumstances. There was no post-event confusion, weakness, tongue biting, incontinence of bowel or bladder, or any reported head trauma after the incident. This was the first such episode he was able to infer that occurred after having found himself on the floor. His headache was worse in the left temporal region and radiated through his neck, progressively increasing in severity over time. His headaches were described as severe, especially when he turned his head to the left. Over the past several months, he noted occasional drenching night sweats and a 40-pound unintentional weight loss over 6 months. Past medical history is significant for smoking 2 packs per day for the past 30 years, but otherwise he has no chronic diseases and takes no medications regularly.
While in the emergency department, he had several episodes of bradycardia noted on telemetry and had accompanying hypotension with values reaching as low as 60/31 mm Hg at one point. He was dizzy during these episodes, and both his blood pressure and heart rate responded to 0.5 mg of intravenous atropine. An electrocardiogram obtained during one of the episodes showed sinus bradycardia, ventricular rate of 25 beats per minute, with no signs of atrioventricular dysfunction or ischemia.
Physical examination revealed a large ulcerative lesion in the left tonsillar area with tenderness in the left submandibular region. No lymphadenopathy was appreciated in the neck. The rest of his examination was grossly normal. His heart rate and blood pressure, measured after an episode had resolved, was 93 beats per minute and 113/61 mm Hg, respectively; vital signs were otherwise normal. Routine laboratory investigation was normal. A computed tomographic angiography of the head and neck showed extensive soft-tissue swelling of the left palatine tonsil and surrounding tissues.