We present the case of a 62-year-old man former cigarette smoker with locally recurrent unresectable squamous cell carcinoma of the esophagus previously treated with concurrent chemotherapy and radiation. He presented with worsening cough, secretions, and halitosis due to malignant TEF. The TEF was managed by an outside institution with two sequential overlapping esophageal stents and subsequently one uncovered self-expanding metallic tracheal stent (18 mm) due to progressive extension of the fistula. Concurrently, he was receiving weekly carboplatin and paclitaxel for HPV-negative T3N2cM0 base of tongue squamous cell carcinoma.
Upon presentation to our institution, bronchoscopy was performed by interventional pulmonology. This showed erosion of the esophageal stent into the trachea causing a large underlying 5-cm TEF extending from the proximal trachea to the main carina. The fistula was mostly covered by the noted esophageal stents; however, the tracheal stent had migrated into the right mainstem bronchus. We also noted a small mucosal ridge at the proximal edge of the fistula, approximately 4 cm below the cricoid. The migrated metallic tracheal stent was not amenable to removal as it would cause further airway injury and loss of seal of the majority of the fistula. Metallic stent was thus repositioned proximally to cover the proximal aspect of the fistula and the small mucosal ridge (see Fig. ). To secure this stent in position and cover the remaining portions of the fistula, a telescoping Dumon Y-stent was placed via rigid bronchoscopy after balloon dilatation of the noted right mainstem bronchostenosis. This adequately covered the fistula.
The patient presented 1 month later for scheduled follow-up. He reported improvement in dyspnea and cough; however, worsening halitosis was noted. A flexible bronchoscopy was then performed for inspection and stent evaluation. Bronchoscopy revealed that both tracheal stents were in adequate position; however, we noted proximal granulation formation related to the metallic tracheal stent causing 50% obstruction of the airway and new extension of the