A 59-year-old man with a history of type 2 diabetes and smoking (an average of 20 cigarettes per day) but no history of high blood pressure and heart disease underwent video-assisted thoracoscopic esophagectomy for squamous cell carcinoma (stage PT1N1Mx) of the distal esophagus with an esophageal reconstruction using a gastric tube through the posterior mediastinal route 14 months previously. The surgical resection margins were negative, and right lung nodule metastasis was not observed. The adjuvant radiotherapy (chemoradiotherapy for the original esophageal tumor area and lymphatic drainage area) and chemotherapy were completed. At 7 months postoperation, the patient occasionally experienced episodes of epigastric discomfort. A gastrointestinal endoscopic biopsy revealed a gastric ulcer on the posterior wall of the distal part of the gastric tube, but his vital signs were stable and routine blood, liver, and kidney function test results were within the normal ranges. This patient did not receive continuous treatment with a proton pump inhibitor. Five months previously, he experienced epigastric discomfort again and had blood in the stool. Gastrointestinal endoscopic examination revealed a round deep ulcer, 1.5 mm in diameter, in the gastric body, with visible blood vessels in the middle (Fig. A and B). However, there was no evidence of recurrence over the 1 year following the operation. Two days after the endoscopic examination, he suddenly experienced massive hematemesis and unstable circulatory dynamics, with a blood pressure of 90/45 mm Hg and a pulse of 150 beats/min. Blood tests revealed severe anemia, with hemoglobin (Hb) of 50 g/L and hematocrit of 15.3%. Infusion was performed to treat critical hemorrhagic shock but was ineffective. We informed the patient and his family members of the situation, and once written informed consent to treatment was provided, we rushed him to the operating room.
Because of the patient's unstable circulatory dynamics, we classified him as high risk for open surgery and decided to use a stent graft repair as the first feasible option for urgent treatment. Diagnostic