The patient was a 65-year-old man (177 cm, 78 kg). He had a history of right upper lobectomy for adenocarcinoma in the right upper lobe 3 years prior. He was admitted to our hospital for VATS (Video Assisted Thoracic Surgery) S6 segmentectomy for the recurrence cancer. He had no other past history of note, and had no medication before hospitalization. He smoked 1 pack of cigarette per day for 45 years. Preoperative laboratory test showed no abnormality. Preoperative electrocardiogram showed arterial fibrillation for the first time, and intravenous unfractionated heparin infusion started after the hospitalization. Heparin infusion was stopped 6 h before operation.
VATS S6 segmentectomy was successfully performed with the patient in the left lateral position. Anesthesia was maintained with sevoflurane (1.0–1.5 %) and remifentanil with left one-lung ventilation. After the chest closure, the patient was repositioned to the supine and we stopped sevoflurane administration. Before emergence from anesthesia, massive bleeding started suddenly from the drainage tube placed in the right thorax. The patient’s systolic blood pressure decreased to 30 mmHg and end-tidal CO2 (EtCO2) also decreased from 40 to 10 mmHg. The patient was immediately placed in the head-down position, his head cooled with the ice pack for the cerebral protection, a hemodialysis catheter inserted from his right internal jugular vein for the purpose of rapid transfusion. After the rapid transfusion of crystalloids, hetastarch, and blood products along with inotrope infusions (dopamine and norepinephrine), his systolic blood pressure increased to 60 mmHg but he was hemodynamically unstable. Right pulmonary artery rupture was suspected. Surgeon decided there was urgent need to complete hemostasis and only in the lateral position should the culprit artery be accessible. Then the patient was placed in the left lateral position again for the open chest hemostasis. Left one-lung ventilation was started again, and then his right chest was re-opened.
As soon as thoracotomy,