The patient was a 59-year-old male former smoker with a past medical history of stage 1-2/4 type I left sided renal cell carcinoma status after robotic partial nephrectomy, parathyroid adenoma status after resection, history of probable idiopathic thrombocytic purpura status after splenectomy, hypertension, diabetes mellitus type 2, coronary artery disease with past myocardial infarction and stent placement, and internal pacemaker-defibrillator placement. The patient had begun complaining of progressive fatigue, arthralgias, myalgias, and back pain beginning approximately one year before diagnosis at his primary care provider's office, which initially seemed to be associated with his, at the time, recent parathyroid resection. Lyme's disease, endemic in the patient's geographic region and often considered in nonspecific presentations with these symptoms, was ruled out by antibody assay. On retrospective analysis of the patient's history, he apparently had worked at a local university in maintenance and did not have a known history of employment in manufacturing or significant chemical handling. There was no known family history of genetic conditions that would predispose the patient to multiple malignancies.
The patient progressively worsened over months; he developed nausea, dry heaving, and decreased appetite. CT of the chest and HIDA scan had been performed which revealed nonobstructive cholelithiasis with normal gallbladder function. The patient subsequently underwent a noncontrast CT of abdomen and pelvis, which revealed a large abdominal mass measuring 7 cm × 5.5 cm abutting the mid portion of the transverse colon, with numerous metastatic foci in the liver, lymphadenopathy adjacent to the pancreatic head, a large lytic lesion involving the tenth rib, and scattered lytic areas throughout the spine and left iliac wing (). The patient then underwent core biopsy of the abdominal mass.
Initial core biopsy of the abdominal mass revealed highly vascular tissue, the majority necrotic, with small atypical cells seen on frozen section. Immunohistochemical staining for RCC was negative. CD10 was equivocal with chromogranin A and podoplanin (D240)