A 56-year-old Caucasian male patient with no past significant medical history or thrombotic medication use presented to the hospital with right arm weakness, slurred speech, and vertigo continuing for less than 24 hours. He had never been a smoker or illicit drug user. He was physically active and only drank socially. He had no family history of cardiovascular, pulmonary, or hypercoagulable diseases.
In his initial evaluation, brain computer tomography (CT) showed acute/subacute infarct of the right posterior frontal region, brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) confirmed acute infarct in the left inferior frontal/suprasylvian region, and head/neck CT angiography (CTA) scan revealed no evidence for large vessel occlusion or visualized intraluminal clot. He was admitted to the neurological unit with a diagnosis of ischemic stroke and was treated with dual antiplatelet therapy using aspirin and clopidogrel. The ECG revealed sinus rhythm with frequent premature ventricular complexes and low-voltage QRS (). The lipid panel was normal as well as kidney and liver function. Transthoracic echocardiography (TTE) detected anterior and apical wall akinesias with an LV ejection fraction (EF) of 25–30%, structurally normal valves, and an extremely large thrombus (10 cm × 12 cm) invading the apex and distal anterior wall which was predominantly adherent but with a mobile tip (). Troponin × 3 was negative, and coagulability workup was within normal range. Subsequent myocardial perfusion imaging revealed severe hypokinesis involving the mid and apical anterior, mid anteroseptal, basal and mid inferoseptal, and basal, mid, and apical inferior wall of the left ventricle, consistent with infarction in the distribution of multiple vessels, with partial viability.
Both the cardiovascular surgeon and cardiologist agreed that the majority of the thrombus appeared densely adherent with only a small portion being somewhat mobile on echocardiography and determined the risk of myocardial resection with surgery outweighed the benefits. As a result, the patient was managed medically with aspirin 325 mg daily,