A 63-year-old male, weighing 82 kg (BMI 28), was scheduled for abdominoperineal resection (APR) and right partial hepatectomy for metastatic colon cancer. His past medical history was significant for hypertension, recently diagnosed non-insulin dependent diabetes, a cerebral vascular accident 9 years prior to surgery, an 80-pack year smoking history (quit 20 years prior to surgery), and an episode of acute congestive heart failure with preserved ejection fraction approximately one year before surgery.
At preoperative evaluation, the patient described his functional capacity as excellent (able to climb 2 flights of stairs multiple times a day with no symptoms; worked more than 60 hrs. a week as a mechanic) and denied any symptoms of HF. The physical examination did not reveal any signs of congestive heart failure. Transthoracic echocardiogram (TTE) showed normal left ventricular (LV) size and function (EF of 55%) and no significant valvular pathology. Since the patient was scheduled for an intermediate risk surgery, had no active cardiac conditions, and had good functional capacity, a decision was made to proceed with surgery without further work-up based on guidelines established by the American College of Cardiology and the American Heart association (ACC/AHA).
General anesthesia was induced with propofol and maintained with isoflurane plus an air-oxygen mixture of equal parts. Standard ASA monitors were applied along with invasive hemodynamic monitoring using a right radial arterial line. Patient had a preexisting tunneled central venous catheter that was accessed and 2 large bore IVs were inserted for intravenous access. He received muscle relaxation with intermittent doses of intravenous (i.v.) rocuronium titrated to keep the train of four to less than 2 twitches. He received a total of 2 mg i.v. hydromorphone in divided doses and 1000 mg of i.v. acetaminophen for analgesia.
The surgery lasted approximately eight hours. His estimated blood loss was 400 ml and urine output was 300 ml. He received