A 46-year-old lady was referred to our multidisciplinary unit with a two-week history of atraumatic left knee swelling and pain. She was diagnosed with Type 1 diabetes at the age of 14 and suffered with established peripheral neuropathy and nephropathy. She was a smoker. She had previously suffered from Charcot neuroarthropathy of the left foot with recalcitrant ulceration on the plantar aspect and a rocker bottom deformity. She had previously undergone midfoot osteotomy and frame application of this to good effect.
The examination by the orthopaedic surgical team revealed moderate swelling of the left knee, along with local warmth and tenderness over the lateral part of the knee joint. Moderate degree of medial and lateral collateral ligament laxity was also noted.
Plain radiographs and CT of the knee at the time of presentation demonstrated a displaced lateral tibial plateau fracture, with a lateral split and significant depression ().
The patient was managed with an above-knee total contact cast and advised to not weight-bear on the limb (wheelchair). It was felt that operative management would be unsuitable due to an ongoing infection of a plantar toe ulcer.
Low-intensity pulsed ultrasound therapy (Exogen, Bioventus LLC) was commenced four months after presentation due to a lack of radiological evidence of bone healing (). Total contact casting was converted to a hinged knee brace locked in extension at five months after initial treatment due to contact ulceration on the anterior tibia from the cast. Low-intensity pulsed ultrasound therapy was stopped after a three-month treatment as the radiographs showed good evidence of bone healing (). The knee bracing was continued for further three months during which time she was allowed to gradually return to full weight bearing and increased knee range of motion.
Four years after her initial presentation, she was admitted with left knee pain. On examination, her left knee was clinically warm and erythematous with deformity. Plain radiographs demonstrated an atraumatic left