In May 2011, a 41-year-old Caucasian male was referred to the orthopedic department of our institution for evaluation of a 6-month left proximal humeral pain, increasing in severity over the last 2–3 weeks. His medical history was unremarkable and was under no medications at the time. He was an ex smoker and a social drinker and worked in constructions. Family history was notable for a grandfather with lung cancer and an aunt with breast cancer.
Upon physical examination, a limited range of motion of the left shoulder was noted (decreased flexion, extension, abduction, and external rotation). Plain radiograph of the left shoulder demonstrated a lytic lesion with intralesional calcifications and cortical remodeling, suggestive of a chondrosarcoma. MRI of the left shoulder confirmed this finding. Biopsy of the lesion was positive for grade 2–3 chondrosarcoma. A full diagnostic workup was carried out, including a CT of the chest and upper abdomen and a bone scan, which demonstrated increased uptake in the left upper arm but no additional bone lesions. Hematological and biochemical investigations were within normal limits.
In June 2011, the patient underwent a limb sparing surgical operation, and pathology was positive for conventional chondrosarcoma grade 2–3, that had destroyed the medullary and cortical portions of bone reaching into adjacent soft tissue. Distal bony resection margin and skin were both free of tumor infiltration. The patient did not receive any adjuvant therapy.
The patient remained free of disease for 4 years following surgery. In 2015, the patient complained of increasing pain in his left resected arm and shoulder. Imaging confirmed local recurrence. The patient subsequently underwent amputation of his left arm with resection of scapula. Pathology confirmed diagnosis of a grade 2/3 conventional chondrosarcoma. In August 2016, he started to experience significant substernal chest pain with shortness of breath and was admitted to the hospital. A CT scan of the chest revealed multiple pulmonary lesions compatible with metastases. The patient was discussed at the oncology tumor