A 64-year-old postmenopausal woman presented to the emergency department at 10 am in the morning with chest pain and shortness of breath of approximately 12 hours duration. Her medical history included right breast invasive ductal carcinoma with bilateral mastectomies in 2015, recently diagnosed bladder cancer with TURBT and intravesical mitomycin C instillation three days prior to current presentation, type 2 diabetes mellitus, hypertension, obstructive sleep apnea, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, and prothrombin G20210A mutation. She had quit smoking 5 years ago, prior to that she had smoked 2 packs per day for 45 years. She was asymptomatic until about 10 pm the night before presentation, when she developed shortness of breath and sharp pleuritic chest pain while she was lying in bed. The patient reported that her chest pain was located in the substernal region, radiating to the back, aggravated by deep breaths and by lying down, and alleviated by sitting up and leaning forward. She said that she had taken some ibuprofen which had reduced the intensity of pain. She did endorse that she was also experiencing a less prominent pressure like sensation in addition to the sharp pleuritic type of pain. She denied fevers, chills, cough, diaphoresis, palpitations, dizziness, abdominal pain, heartburn, nausea or vomiting, flu-like symptoms, recent illnesses, or any history of chest pain in the past. Her family history was significant for her brother having an episode of myocardial infarction at age 55.
On detailed inquiry of the patient's history of bladder cancer, the patient reported that she was diagnosed in 2012 after undergoing cystoscopy for an episode of gross hematuria and was found to have a low-grade bladder cancer. She underwent transurethral bladder tumor resection and 1 cycle of intravesical BCG treatment in 2012 and was asymptomatic after that with regular follow-up with urology. On a surveillance cystoscopy performed by the patient's urologist in December 2016, a lesion was seen in the bladder, for which