A previously healthy 21 year old Sri Lankan female university student admitted with shortness of breath for 1 week duration. Shortness of breath was mainly on exertion, however at the time of admission it was present even at rest. She had low grade fever for the last 1 week associated with malaise and profuse sweating. Her weight and appetite have been steady throughout. She was not on any long term medication and did not take medication for minor ailments in the recent past to suggest a drug induced hypersensitivity reaction. She does not have a history of conjunctivitis, rhinitis, sinusitis or allergy to any drug or food. She took worm treatment 6 month prior. History was negative for malignancy, thromboembolic disorders and connective tissue diseases. She denied family history or other risk factors for cardiovascular disease. She is a non alcoholic, non smoker and no history of illicit drug use. She was mildly febrile and dyspnoeic at rest. There was no associated pallor or icterus. Generalized oedema or ankle oedema was absent. Physical examination was negative for malignancy, thromboembolic disorders and connective tissue diseases. She was tachycardic with regular, low volume pulse at rate of 120 beats per minute. Jugular venous pressure was elevated 5 cm above the angle of Louis with negative Kussmaul sign. Her blood pressure was 100/70 mmHg on admission. The cardiac apex was at its normal position and heart sounds were slightly muffled with gallop rhythm. There were bilateral basal fine end inspiratory crackles. Firm, non tender mild hepatomegaly with mild splenomegaly were present. Otherwise her clinical examination was normal. Her full blood count revealed absolute rise in eosinophil count of 21.6 × 103 per microliter (63.5%) with 34 leukocytes per microliter with normal platelet count, haemoglobin and red cell indices. Blood picture showed high total white cell count with severe eosinophilia with no abnormal cells. Her erythrocyte sedimentation rate was 60 mm in 1st h