A 47-year-old male with a past medical history of hypertension and coronary artery disease presented to the emergency department complaining of bilateral otalgia. He woke up in the morning and was about to have breakfast when his symptoms suddenly started. The bilateral ear pain lasted approximately 30 to 45 minutes, and the pain did not radiate and was only mildly improved after he took his home medications, which included aspirin and a β-blocker. The persistence of his symptoms prompted his visit to the emergency department. Pertinent negatives include no chest pain, shortness of breath, nausea, vomiting, diaphoresis, dizziness, tinnitus, hearing loss, fevers, or chills. His past medical history was significant for 2 non-ST-elevation myocardial infarctions 6 and 10 years prior to admission that required 3 coronary stents, which he did not know any additional information about. He was compliant with his medications including bisoprolol, atorvastatin, and aspirin therapy daily. He denied any alcohol or tobacco use. His father had a history of coronary artery disease in his 40s. He had a stress test 2 months prior to admission that was unremarkable for any ischemic electrocardiography (EKG) changes. On arrival to the emergency department, his physical examination revealed that he was afebrile and hemodynamically stable. He appeared comfortable in no acute distress. His cardiovascular examination exhibited a normal rate and regular rhythm with no murmur or friction rub. Otoscopic examination was unremarkable with no discharge, tympanic swelling, or loss of light reflex. The initial EKG showed sinus rhythm with Q-waves in the inferior leads and nonspecific ST changes in the lateral leads ().
He was admitted to the hospital for observation given his significant history of coronary artery disease. His initial troponin was normal but subsequently rose to a peak of 20.00 mg/mL after 24 hours. A transthoracic echocardiogram was interpreted as having an ejection fraction between 60% and 65% with no obvious valvulopathy