A 57 year old Hispanic male who smoked for one year initially presented with lower back pain that eventually progressed to increasing upper back pain. An orthopedic surgeon performed an MRI scan which revealed multiple metastases to the thoracic spine. An initial CT scan revealed a right lung mass and a subsequent bronchoscopy revealed a non-small cell lung cancer consistent with poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma. For first line therapy, he received one cycle of carboplatin and docetaxel which was tolerated well with only mild nausea. He completed four cycles of chemotherapy and a pathology report identified an EGFR exon 19 deletion. The patient started on erlotinib, an EGFR inhibitor, at 150 mg capsule per day taken by mouth without food or on an empty stomach 1 h before or 2 h after food. Patient was also advised to avoid sunlight while on therapy due to skin toxicity. He tolerated it well and had clinically responsive disease as well as a decrease in primary mass from 5 cm to 2.8 cm on CT scan for over a year until he had started developing worsening back pain and complications caused by papulopustular lesions as well as paronychia and xerosis. He also developed a Klebsiella folliculitis which necessitated discontinuation of the trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole that he had been taking for the acneiform lesions and a brief course of ciprofloxacin that had led to the resolution of the papulopustular eruption.
He also started to have persistent elevation of carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) level from 5.4 ng/ml rising steadily to 13.4 ng/ml and eventually rising exponentially to 24.3 ng/ml but continued on erlotinib, dose reduced to 100 mg one capsule per day, due to stable MRI scans. Patient was evaluated for a possible surgery on the spine but was unfortunately not a surgical candidate. A CT of the chest with and without contrast reported significant primary site progression of bilateral varying size small lung nodular lesions, consistent with metastatic. The right infrahilar nodular mass also increased from 2.1 × 1.5 cm to 2