A 60-year-old African-American male with a past medical history of a stab wound to the abdomen, post laparotomy years ago, presented to the emergency department with abdominal pain and distention for seven weeks. The pain was characterized as continuous, involving all quadrants, nagging, nonradiating, 7/10 in intensity, associated with decreased appetite, bloating, constipation, and weight loss of 50 lbs over seven weeks. The patient denied fever, chills, night sweats, nausea, vomiting, and blood in the stool. The patient endorsed shortness of breath on exertion and disturbed sleep due to abdominal distention. The patient had colonoscopy 1.5 years ago and reported it as normal. The patient denied tobacco, alcohol, illicit drug abuse, and he worked as a security guard. The patient’s vital signs were within normal limits and his physical examination was remarkable for abdominal distention with mild tenderness on deep palpation in all quadrants with rebound tenderness. Laboratory findings showed mild anemia with hemoglobin of 11.8 g/dL, hematocrit of 37%.
The patient first underwent computed tomography (CT) scan of the abdomen and pelvis with intravenous contrast that showed an 8 cm mesenteric mass with surrounding stranding and poorly defined borders, no bowel ileus or obstruction but thickening of the descending colon through the sigmoid, with mild surrounding stranding (Figure ).
Oncology and general surgery services were consulted and the decision was made to proceed with exploration laparotomy and biopsy of mesenteric mass with frozen section. No metastatic disease or ascites were noted. There was a mass at the base of the mesentery involving the transverse mesocolon overlying the middle colic as well as the superior mesenteric artery. The mass area was ligated and wedge resection was performed and sent for frozen section. Tru-Cut biopsies of the retroperitoneal area were also sent. The pathologist was unsuccessful in identifying a diagnosis intraoperatively as what was mostly seen was fibrosis. More specimen