A 58-year-old Caucasian woman presented at our institution with immobilizing back pain, known for 4 years but exacerbating for 3 months. The past history included smoking (about 15 pack-years), appendectomy and tonsillectomy as a child, and extensive endometriosis which required surgical excision of sigmoid colon and hysterectomy sixteen years earlier. Conventional X-rays of the thoracic and lumbar spine revealed degenerative alterations only. However, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) demonstrated multiple lesions in all vertebral bodies with a pathologic fracture in the 8th thoracic vertebral body. Blood count was completely normal. Suspecting bone metastases of a yet unknown primary tumour, a thoracoabdominal CT scan was performed, revealing disseminated small nodules in both lungs (max. 1.0 × 0.5 cm in diameter) and small polypoid intraluminal lesions in the gall bladder infiltrating the liver (), the latter showing additionally some very small lesions measuring only a few millimeters in diameter. An ultrasound confirmed a solid tumour mass in the fundus of the gall bladder, highly suspicious for primary gall bladder cancer. Upper endoscopy and lower endoscopy were inconspicuous. External biopsies of a suspected pulmonary lesion and the thickened conglomerate of gall bladder wall towards liver were both not diagnostic. Repeating one of these interventions seemed not promising. Palliative radiotherapy (5 × 4 Gy) of the thoracic spine was performed. Unfortunately, severe mood depression and panic attacks occurred, delaying further diagnostic and therapeutic interventions. Six weeks later, a repeated CT scan revealed progression of the bone lesions and significant thickening of the gall bladder wall. MRI did not detect brain metastases. For further diagnosis, we discussed with the patient pulmonary wedge resection, vertebral biopsy, or cholecystectomy. With the two unsuccessful attempts in mind, she chose the latter procedure, suggesting the highest probability to finally reach a diagnosis. This intervention was then performed without complications and provided the following findings.
Macroscopically, the gall bladder specimen was 9 cm long and 3 cm in diameter. In the lumen, a friable broad based