Patient AM is a Caucasian female born at a community hospital by cesarean section to a 20-year-old gravida 1 para 0 mother of Western European descent. The mother had regular prenatal care, took prenatal vitamins and did not use alcohol, tobacco, or illicit drugs during the pregnancy. During prenatal visits, the fetus had reassuring vitals so an ultrasound was not obtained. The pregnancy was complicated by gestational diabetes and preeclampsia for which the mother had been placed on bedrest during the final trimester. At 42 weeks gestation, the mother was induced, but during labor, fetal distress was noted, requiring an emergency cesarean section to be performed. Birth weight was 7 lbs 4 oz. (3.29 kg) and length was 17″ (43.18 cm). After birth, our patient failed to spontaneously void and concern for acute renal failure resulted in her being transferred to a tertiary pediatric hospital for further evaluation. This later resolved during the hospitalization.
During the admission, radiographs of the chest, abdomen, and pelvis were obtained. The images demonstrated multiple vertebral segmentation defects in the thoracolumbar spine and agenesis of the distal sacrum and coccyx. Our patient was noted to have fusion of multiple vertebrae within the cervical spine consistent with a Klippel–Feil deformity and partial fusion of multiple ribs bilaterally consistent with spondylocostal dyostosis. She was referred to pediatric orthopaedics. Since our patient was healthy and without other congenital anomalies, she was conservatively followed with serial radiographic evaluations every 6 months (). On exam, she was noted to have a short neck with limited range of motion. Bowel and bladder function were normal. Motor responses were good, and there was full strength in the lower extremities.
She began walking at eight months old. At one year of age, she was noted to have a 40° thoracolumbar scoliosis. At age three, she was noted to have a disproportionately short trunk, but was otherwise well developed and wanted to participate in gymnastics