The patient was a 59-year-old woman who had been treated 18 months previously for serous adenocarcinoma of the ovary. Treatment at that time consisted of total hysterectomy, bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy, omentectomy, pelvic lymphadenectomy, para-aortic lymphadenectomy, and low anterior resection for direct invasion of the rectum. An anastomotic leak between the colon and rectum occurred after surgery and a diverting ileostomy was created. After adjuvant chemotherapy, the stoma was closed 8 months postoperatively. At 18 months after surgery, recurrence of the serous adenocarcinoma at the vaginal stump was detected on gynecologic examination. Radiological examination revealed no evidence of recurrence at any other site. Preoperative colonoscopy findings showed no evidence of the tumor at the prior anastomosis, which was located 5 cm from the anal verge. The patient strongly desired SPS and gave consent for treatment by this new method after a full explanation was provided.
Conventional laparotomy and adhesiolysis were conducted in the lithotomy position with the legs lowered. The tumor was located around the bladder, vaginal stump, and the prior rectal anastomosis, but no invasion of the bladder was observed. Dissection between the bladder and proximal vagina was performed without difficulty, and the ureters and superior vesical arteries were preserved. The perirectal tissues, particularly around the prior anastomosis, were dense and offered no dissection plane to secure the pelvic plexus. Dissection along the anterior surface of the sacrum was advanced as much as possible using electrocautery toward the deepest part of the pelvis, from which horizontal advancement was limited (Fig. , arrow 1).
The patient was subsequently placed in the lithotomy position with the legs elevated. A full-thickness circumlinear incision of the rectal wall was created inside the anal canal 3 cm from the anal verge, and the proximal stump was closed with a purse-string suture. After irrigation with physiological saline, a multiple access port (GelPOINT Path®, Applied Medical, Inc., Rancho S