A 79-year-old white man arrived by ambulance to our emergency department with chief complaints of lower abdominal pain and profuse diarrhea. On examination, general signs of poor health were observed. His blood pressure was 150/60 mmHg and pulse rate 90 beats per minute (bpm). His temperature was 37.3 °C and he did not appear to be in distress. A physical examination did not reveal any bowel obstruction. His laboratory findings were within normal range except for an elevated white blood cell count (14.5 × 109/L), slightly low red blood cell count (3.12 × 1012/L), and slightly raised level of creatinine (124 μmol/L). His medical history included recent completion of radiotherapy treatment for a Gleason score 9 prostate adenocarcinoma, previous cerebrovascular event, asbestosis, atrial fibrillation, and chronic lymphoid leukemia. His abdominal surgical history included only an open appendectomy 40 years prior. He is a retired marine engineer and lives with his wife. He reported that he did not drink alcohol and had quit tobacco smoking 30 years ago. His family history is noncontributory.
Computed tomography (CT) of his abdomen and pelvis was performed and demonstrated a peritoneal recess containing multiple small bowel loops over the anterior side of the intraperitoneum lying between peritoneal lining and the transverse abdominis fascia consistent with a pseudoherniation of a preperitoneal subtype (Fig. ). There was no mass or dilatation of bowel loops and no mass to his upper abdominal organs or retroperitoneum.
In view of CT abdomen findings, a surgical opinion was sought. As there was no evidence of bowel compromise, he was managed non-operatively. Fecal polymerase chain reaction (PCR) tested positive for Salmonella and our patient improved on antibiotics with resolution of abdominal pain. He was discharged and followed up 2 weeks later at out-patient clinic and had no abdominal discomfort; therefore, no elective hernia repair was planned and further follow-up was not indicated.