A 58-year-old man presented few natural teeth in the upper jaw (dental elements 1.2, 1.1, and 2.2) and long-term complete mandibular edentulism (). Due to scarce retention of the removable dentures, the patient had not worn them for several years and reported difficulties in eating and speaking, besides aesthetic problems. The patient presented mild hypertension under treatment and antiaggregant therapy and was not a smoker. The primary patient request was a nonremovable rehabilitation. The remaining superior teeth appeared not to be suitable for supporting a fixed rehabilitation, both for their position and for the periodontal attachment loss, and were considered hopeless.
In order to plan an implant-supported oral rehabilitation, a preliminary cone beam computed tomography (CBCT) was prescribed to better evaluate the bone volume of both jaws.
Preliminary radiographic examination through CBCT revealed the presence of sufficient bone volume in the anterior maxilla and poor bone volume in the lower jaw except for the interforaminal area; no periapical radiolucency was discovered in correspondence of the remaining teeth ().
The treatment planned consisted in a fixed full-arch rehabilitation of maxilla supported by 5 implants after the extraction of remaining teeth, and a fixed full-arch rehabilitation on 4 implants in the mandible. Both interventions were scheduled to be conducted through a flapless approach after computer-aided planning in order to reduce intraoperative and postoperative morbidity. The strong request of the patient to try everything possible to avoid a provisional mobile restoration led to carefully planning not only implant insertion but also prosthetic rehabilitation. Thus, the patient was informed about the possibility of applying immediate fixed provisional prosthesis if at the time of implant insertions; most of the implants had showed an insertion torque higher than 45 N·cm, as reported by Cannizzaro et al. [].
The patient was informed about the treatment and a written consensus was obtained according to local legislation.
Initially, a