A 65-year-old male, smoker with a history of type 2 diabetes mellitus, hypertension, and hyperlipidemia, started to notice slowly growing lesions in his left cheek, posterior left shoulder, and left upper arm. The lesions were not tender or itchy. There was no history of shortness of breath. On physical examination, an indurated 10 × 10 cm lesion arising on the left cheek was identified (). Similar lesions were also identified in the right upper arm measuring 2 × 3 cm and posterior left shoulder measuring 5 × 5 cm. No palpable lymphadenopathy or organomegaly was noted. Subsequent biopsy and microscopic examination of the left cheek skin lesion revealed an infiltrate formed by sheets of foamy macrophages surrounded by a dense plasma cell infiltrate and lymphocytes with scattered neutrophils. There was focal granuloma formation. Special stains for organism were negative. Immunohistochemical studies showed diffuse staining of the histiocytes for S100 protein and CD68. They were negative of CD1a, ruling out histiocytosis X. The lymphocytes were a mixture of T and B cells. The plasma cell infiltrate was polyclonal and was confirmed by in situ hybridization for kappa and lambda. The combination of findings was consistent with cutaneous Rosai-Dorfman disease. CT scan of the chest was performed, which showed bilateral thin and mildly thick-walled pulmonary cysts. Some of them were rounded and some demonstrated bizarre shapes with multiloculation and internal septations. There were also numerous ground-glass nodules ranging from 1-2 mm up to a few centimeters. The findings had a characteristic upper lung zone predominance sparing the lung bases and the anteromedial parts of the middle lobe and lingula (). There was no intrathoracic lymphadenopathy and no pleural effusion. Initially, the skin lesion at the cheek was treated with radiotherapy (1500 cGy in 5 fractions); however, there was only minimal response. The patient was started on 50 mg oral prednisone daily, which resulted in improvement of the skin lesions. However, treatment with prednisone was