Miss T is a 41-year-old Caucasian woman who was admitted to the intensive care unit of our hospital for an episode of severe diabetic ketoacidosis. The day prior to admission, the patient had been unwell and vomiting and was eventually found unconscious and admitted to hospital. The patient's medical history was significant for poorly controlled type 1 diabetes on insulin, diabetic retinopathy, depression, anxiety, and inactive hepatitis C. She was a previous intravenous drug user, was on buprenorphine treatment with intermittent abuse of benzodiazepines and opioids, and was a cigarette smoker. Her surgical history included laparoscopic bilateral tubal ligation and a LLETZ conisation for a CIN 2 cervical lesion.
On admission, her temperature was 29.4°C, her respiratory rate was 28, pulse was 75, BP was 134/87 mmHg, and GCS was 10. Laboratory testing showed severe metabolic acidosis and acute renal failure and inflammation. The patient was started on treatment as per hospital DKA protocol and meropenem intravenously, given her severely raised inflammatory markers with an unclear infection focus. After stabilisation of her status, the patient was discharged to the medical ward. She became febrile several days later and began reporting lower abdominal pain, nausea, and intermenstrual vaginal bleeding. Rising inflammatory markers were noted. She was reviewed by the surgical team, found to be constipated, and treated with laxatives. A pelvic ultrasound was organised to locate the infection focus. This reported “complex fluid within the pouch of Douglas” (), with pelvic infection representing the most likely cause. The patient was reviewed by the gynaecology team and switched to oral co-amoxicillin.
On this treatment, the inflammatory markers, that had begun to drop on meropenem, started to rise again. The antibiotic regime was hence changed to oral ciprofloxacin and metronidazole. During her hospital admission, the patient complained repeatedly of nausea, which was considered a side effect of metronidazole. The patient was discharged home on oral antibiotics when