A 51-year-old man was admitted to our university hospital in September 2016 with panic attacks, dyspnea and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) grade IV. During panic attacks, the patient experienced a feeling of heart-race (but heart frequency remained below 100/min), cramps in the upper extremities and fear of death. In addition, the patient suffered from chronic abdominal pain (over all quadrants). Therefore, he had previously been admitted many times to hospitals near his hometown at medical and surgical departments. Since no organic causes for the symptoms were identified, the patient was referred to a local psychiatric department where he was admitted as an inpatient seven times between 2014 and 2016. The patient increasingly developed subtle memory and concentration deficits, depressed mood, and ruminations, predominantly about his deteriorating health. Because he relinquished hopes of recovery from abdominal pain, for the first time in his life in 2016, he made a suicide attempt by taking an unknown amount of trazodone and triazolam tablets. He was discharged from the psychiatric ward of the community hospital after stabilization of acute suicidal thoughts 1 week before being admitted to our hospital.
In the initial psychiatric examination, perception, memory and concentration were reduced. The thought flow was reduced, he exhibited depressed mood and ruminations, the patient felt sick, hopeless, and had increased feelings of guilt (mainly for seeking help from his family during panic attacks). His affect was reduced, there was inner tension with concomitant low levels of energy and increased motor activity. His mood deteriorated during the day with ruminating thoughts during the evenings and nights. Consequently, he had difficulties falling asleep, sleeping through the night, decreased total sleep time, early morning awakening and fatigue during the day. Occasionally, he exhibited anxiety, with a feeling of rapid heartbeat, panic and fear of death. These panic attacks were sometimes associated with dyspnea. The psychiatric examination was otherwise normal. In particular, there was no suicidal ideation or