A 62-year-old Chinese woman presented to the First Hospital of Jilin University with complaints of abdominal pain, vomiting, and bloody stool for 24 hours. On admission, her general condition was good. Her temperature was 37.1 °C, respiratory rate was 18 times per minute, and heart rate was 80 beats per minute. She did not have cutaneous or scleral icterus. No superficial tumescent lymph nodes were observed. A physical examination showed distended abdomen with no stomach outline, peristalsis, and varicose veins. Abdominal breathing was slightly limited. Abdominal tenderness could be detected in her right abdomen accompanied by rebound tenderness and muscle tension. A palpable mass could be detected in her right lower abdomen. Liver, spleen, and gallbladder could not be touched below the costal arch. Murphy’s sign and shifting dullness were negative. Bowel sound was found to be approximately 7 beats per minute with gurgling. A neurological physical examination had no significant findings. A physical examination of her heart and chest was normal. She was a housewife in a small city with no special family history. She had a history of hypertension for 10 years, and the use of captopril helped maintain a satisfactory level of blood pressure. She denied a history of hepatitis, tuberculosis, and diabetes. Also, no history of drug allergy, surgeries, tobacco smoking, and long-term alcohol consumption was reported. The results of complete blood count, liver function, and blood biochemical indexes are shown in Tables and . The results of coagulation markers of hepatitis B virus, hepatitis C virus, syphilis, and human immunodeficiency virus were found to be negative. Abdominal computed tomography (CT) was performed, which showed some intestinal canals and mesentery entering into the right colon. The CT scan showed a target sign suggesting intussusception in her right abdomen (Fig. , ).
Surgical exploration revealed that the ICD entered her ascending colon with edema (Figs. , and