A 53-year-old married Taiwanese woman was brought to our emergency unit with the chief complaint of shortness of breath and chest tightness for 1 day in July 2016. Her breathing sound was diminished over the right lung field but there was no fever, jugular vein engorgement, superficial lymphadenopathy, heart murmur, or peripheral edema. She was not a cigarette smoker and denied alcohol abuse. Her type 2 diabetes mellitus and hyperlipidemia had been under regular medical control for 2 years. Her surgical history included removal of an intracranial aneurysm in 2003 and uvulopalatopharyngoplasty for relieving obstructive sleep apnea syndrome in 2005. Malignancy had never been diagnosed either in our patient or her family members in the past. There was no evidence of myocardial ischemia by electrocardiogram and cardiac enzyme examination.
A routine chest X-ray film revealed massive right-side pleural effusion pushing her mediastinum and heart shadow leftward. After admission to a ward, a pigtail catheter was inserted for effusion drainage. A laboratory study disclosed an exudate nature without signs of bacterial infection. A cytology investigation reported a metastatic adenocarcinoma. A DNA study did not discover gene mutations of epidermal growth factor receptor. Positive findings of serum tumor makers included cancer antigen 125 (CA 125) 89.6 IU/ml and cancer antigen 15–3 (CA 15–3) 43 IU/ml, respectively. A computed tomography (CT) scan of her chest and abdomen, however, did not detect any suspicious primary site of her malignancy. Since her respiratory distress had been relieved by therapeutic thoracentesis, she was discharged without any other treatment on her own terms.
A mammogram was arranged for her at an out-patient clinic in August 2016. The result was also negative while her pleural effusion began to recur as revealed on chest films. She was lost to follow up in the following 4 months and similar difficult breathing struck again eventually in December 2016. During her second hospitalization, her respiratory discomfort was rapidly eliminated by a