A 75-year-old gentleman first presented to primary care with a three month history of left-sided headaches and diplopia. He also complained of altered taste sensation and paraesthesia in the left maxillary region. There was no history of epistaxis. The patient attended his general practitioner on multiple occasions and was given sinusitis treatment until a CT scan was finally performed due to persistence of symptoms, upon which the patient was then referred to the ENT service.
He has a background history of fast atrial flutter (on bisoprolol), hypertension, polymyalgia rheumatica, benign prostatic hyperplasia, and previously excised papillary squamous cell carcinoma in the left thigh. He quit smoking 40 years prior to presentation. Otherwise, he had lived independently with WHO performance status of 1 (Karnofsky status 90).
The patient underwent complete head and neck examination including flexible nasoendoscopy. There was no discreet neck lymphadenopathy. Nasoendoscopy revealed a mass down to the left inferior turbinate obscuring the left nasal cavity. He complained of diplopia on the left side on the lateral gaze with proptosis of approximately 3 mm compared to the contralateral side. Vision was 6/30 bilaterally with glasses. There was no relative afferent pupillary defect or papilloedema.
Initial CT scan revealed an aggressive lesion in left ethmoidal and frontal sinuses, invading the left orbit and anterior cranial fossa. CT neck and thorax showed no cervical or chest lymphadenopathy.
Subsequent MRI imaging also showed evidence of bone erosion with breaching of the dura in the vicinity of the left orbitofrontal cortex although there was no signal change in the brain to suggest brain invasion (). There was destruction of left lamina papyracea. An incidental right anterior cranial fossa meningioma, distant from sinonasal lesion was also identified. This pathologic finding did not have any significant clinical relevance with the primary disease.
A staged whole body positron-emission tomography (PET) scan showed no other distant lesions but confirmed