A 62-year-old male lifelong non-smoker was referred to the head and neck oncology clinic with a five-month history of enlarging right neck mass associated with neck pain, dysphagia, and dysphonia. He was otherwise healthy, aside from type II diabetes mellitus and a distant history of sarcoidosis. Physical examination, as well as contrast-enhanced CT scan of the neck, showed a large base of tongue mass that crossed the midline and projected into the suprahyoid epiglottis. There was a 4.6 × 3.4 cm mass representing a necrotic confluence of lymph nodes in right level IIA and IIB. Biopsy confirmed non-keratinizing, HPV-OSCC. Immunohistochemistry p16 testing was used for HPV diagnosis. PET/CT scan demonstrated bilateral level III lymphadenopathy, but did not show evidence of distant metastases. The patient was diagnosed with a cT4aN2c HPV-OSCC and referred to the institutional tumor board where a recommendation for definitive chemoradiation was made. Staging was according to the American Joint Committee on Cancer Seventh Edition. The patient received 70 Gy in 35 fractions to the primary site and involved nodes, with 56 Gy to the uninvolved regional nodes bilaterally, including the bilateral lateral retropharyngeal nodes. Due to the patient’s comorbidities the concurrent chemotherapy consisted of intravenous cetuximab given as a loading dose of 400 mg/m2 one week prior to the initiation of radiotherapy, followed by seven weekly doses of 250 mg/m2 concurrent with radiotherapy. During and soon after completing chemoradiotherapy, the patient experienced the expected toxicities and had evidence of favourable cancer response to treatment. A contrast enhanced CT scan of the neck performed five weeks after completion documented good anatomic response to treatment with resolution of all disease with the exception of a lymph node within right level II, which was much decreased in size, measuring 2 cm in greatest dimension.
Two months after completing chemoradiotherapy, the patient presented to medical attention with onset of binocular vertical diplopia