A newborn male child, less than one day old, was found to be leaking clear fluid from the skull one hour after birth whilst the mother was holding the child. The child was born at forty-one weeks through a normal vaginal delivery with forceps assistance and no immediate complications. Prenatal screening was unremarkable. The mother was from an indigenous background and in good health and there was no family history of any other similar illnesses. She denied smoking and alcohol use during pregnancy. At birth, no issue with the skull was noted. On further inspection of the child, after the mother raised concerns about the clear fluid leaking from the skull, a 1.5 cm circular defect was identified in the area of the posterior fontanelle with macerated skin edges and underlying membranes and evidence of clear fluid flowing from it. The child had normal haemodynamic parameters throughout and was otherwise examined normally. Further testing of the fluid for beta-trace protein was positive for cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). The neurosurgery team at the tertiary referral centre was contacted at this stage for a suspected encephalomeningocele and the child was transferred there for further management. Further examination at this stage showed a child who was otherwise well, feeding normally, and with normal system review.
Further imaging with computed tomography (CT) scan of the head, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the brain, magnetic resonance angiography (MRA), and magnetic resonance venography (MRV) identified a likely encephalomeningocele (Figures -). The defect was arising from the posterior fontanelle. Characterisation of the surrounding vasculature showed a persistent fetal vein and possibly an associated vein within the defect. An MRI spine to identify any associated NTD was unremarkable.
The child was booked in for emergent repair of the encephalocele. During the operation, a vertical incision with an elliptical extension around the defect was marked. Careful dissection from superior and inferior aspects of the incision to the pericranium and then working