A 32-year-old man presented with colicky abdominal pain in the left lower quadrant for 2 weeks duration. He had a significant weight loss of approximately 30 kg over 2 months associated with decreased appetite. He also has a history of chronic alcoholism and smoking. There was no associated nausea, vomiting, hematemesis, melena, or hematochezia. Review of symptoms was negative for fever, arthritis, skin rash, jaundice, and pruritus. Two months prior, the patient was discharged from another hospital following a 6-week hospitalization for alcohol-induced necrotizing acute pancreatitis, which was treated successfully by conservative measures. Admission vitals revealed an afebrile and normotensive patient with a heart rate of 92 beats per minute and oxygen saturation of 98% on room air. On physical examination, the abdomen was soft with mild tenderness to deep palpation in the left iliac fossa and lumbar region. There were no signs of peritonitis. Laboratory results and abdominal sonogram showed no significant findings. Abdominal CT scan from the episode of acute pancreatitis 2 months ago showed findings consistent with necrotizing acute pancreatitis ().
A colonoscopy was done because of the abdominal pain and significant weight loss. The scope revealed ulceration with a partial stricture at the descending colon approximately 30 cm from the anal verge (). However, the scope could not be navigated beyond the stricture. Controlled radial expansion balloon dilatation was tried without success in dilating the stricture.
Due to tuberculosis (TB) being a possible differential diagnosis, a workup for TB was warranted. This included sputum for acid-fast bacillus, chest X-ray, purified protein derivative test, erythrocyte sedimentation rate, and pathological examination, all of which were negative for TB. Biopsy of the lesion revealed active focal colitis with ulceration, but no granulomas were seen. Barium enema and CT colonoscopy were done to assess the length of the stricture to plan an appropriate treatment strategy as shown in and , respectively. Barium enema findings were consistent with inflammatory bowel disease, as