The case of a 54-year-old male patient is reported. The patient, an ex-smoker, with systemic arterial hypertension (SAH) and heart failure (Chagasic cardiomyopathy with implanted pacemaker) had been submitted to coronary angioplasty. On being admitted to the emergency room of the University Hospital de Base in São José do Rio Preto, the patient reported he had pain in the right lower limb associated with edema, paresthesia, and coldness that had started suddenly. He also complained of pain in the left leg but said the pain was less intense. A duplex ultrasound of the iliac arteries showed total occlusion by an intraluminal thrombus on the right side with the superficial femoral and popliteal arteries occluded along their complete length. The popliteal artery of the left leg was also distally occluded (bifurcation). Bilateral embolectomy was performed without complications.
On the following day, he complained of “burning” pain and said that even the blanket on his legs bothered him. He had difficulty bending and straightening his knee and the sole of his foot. On physical examination, the patient had edema of the lateral and posterior compartments, and a lot of pain on compression, especially of the anterior compartment that was highly sensitive to slight pressure.
The chosen conduct was intermittent manual compression (massage) of the musculature of the compartments with the objective of stimulating lymphatic and venous return during the physical examination. The posterior compartment had a 100% improvement in the pain after 20 minutes of massage, the lateral compartment improved the pain completely after around 40 minutes, and the anterior compartment improved the pain by about 70% within one hour. With this improvement, the patient spontaneously bent his knee (without pain) and the sole of his foot (with a little pain in the anterior compartment). The patient was asked to evaluate his pain using an analog scale with the worst imaginary being 10 and no pain at all being 0. This was the only therapy used to reduce the