A 53-year-old woman with a history of intravenous methamphetamine abuse, hypertension, tobacco use, and poorly controlled type 2 diabetes presented with 2 weeks of progressively worsening left lower extremity pain and motor deficits. Two weeks prior, she reported hitting her leg against a door while intoxicated. Since then, her left calf had become increasingly painful, swollen, and unable to bear weight. On exam, the left anterior calf and foot were ecchymotic and poikilothermic, and there were multiple tender, raised red lesions consistent with Osler nodes at the plantar surface of the right foot (). Ankle brachial indices were unattainable on the left side due to absent waveforms.
The patient also had a one-month history of leukocytosis with negative blood cultures thought initially to be due to a UTI. Her leukocytosis persisted despite oral antibiotic therapy. An abdominal CT scan taken 3 weeks prior to admission showed a normal caliber left renal artery (); however, an abdominal CT scan on admission revealed a 1.65 cm left renal artery aneurysm (Figures and ). CTA of the lower extremity demonstrated 50% left iliac stenosis and superficial femoral artery occlusion with popliteal reconstitution and no runoff to the foot. Given concerns for septic emboli, a transthoracic echocardiogram was ordered demonstrating echogenic vegetations on the right coronary cusp of the aortic valve.
The renal aneurysm was repaired with a midline transperitoneal approach, and the left gonadal and adrenal veins were ligated for exposure (). After proximal and distal control was obtained, the saccular aneurysmal wall was resected and the renal artery was repaired primarily.
Three days later, she underwent angioplasty and stenting of the left common iliac and superficial femoral arteries in an effort to permit healing of a below-knee amputation but ultimately required above-knee amputation. The patient also underwent aortic valve replacement during her admission. Her leukocytosis resolved, and creatinine returned to baseline. At a follow-up visit 24 months postoperatively, the patient's creatinine was