The patient was a 63-year-old male former smoker with a history of insulin dependent diabetes mellitus and hypothyroidism. He reported having a “sensitive stomach” for three years with cyclical episodes of nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, constipation, and poor oral intake over the course of three months, with progressive weakness and a 40 lb weight loss. Initially his symptoms were treated conservatively based on imaging demonstrating a diffusely distended GI tract concerning for enterocolitis or ileus. Conservative management was unsuccessful, with the patient presenting to the emergency department due to the sudden onset of intractable severe vomiting that lasted for hours, coupled with severe abdominal distention. The patient had never previously had a colonoscopy or esophagogastroduodenoscopy.
Physical examination revealed a cachectic man (BMI 16.69 kg/m2, Glasgow prognostic score 1 with intermediate prognosis) with a mildly distended and thinned abdominal wall. The abdomen was nontender with normal bowel sounds and without rebound, guarding, or evidence of peritonitis. Colonoscopy demonstrated a dilated colon with friable mucosa but no evidence of ischemia. The distal transverse colon demonstrated luminal narrowing with the suggestion of extrinsic compression. A CT abdomen and pelvis with contrast showed a large bowel obstruction with a transition at the splenic flexure with focal wall thickening. Radiographically this was considered to likely be secondary to a pancreatic tail cancer with local malignant extension into the colon. Additionally, possible infiltration of the omentum in the right hemiabdomen was concerning for omental carcinomatosis. Diffuse heterogeneous bone densities raised concern for metastatic disease versus patchy osteopenia.
The patient underwent a subtotal colectomy with ileostomy. Intraoperatively it was noted that the patient was cachectic with minimal body fat. The transverse colon was congested, distended, cyanotic, and densely adherent to the retroperitoneum in the area of the pancreatic body and tail. Firm, white tissue was identified outside the pancreas with likely invasion of the middle colic vessels.