A 70-year-old woman presented to the ED with chest pain and nausea. The symptoms started after receiving news about a family member’s critical illness. The chest pain was described as heavy with radiation to her right upper extremity and was associated with dyspnea. No other symptoms were associated with the chest pain. She had no history of previous cardiac disease. She was a smoker and her past medical history was significant for hyperlipidemia.
Her vital signs were unremarkable, with heart rate of 84 beats per minute, respiratory rate of 18 breaths per minute, blood pressure of 124/84 mmHg, and temperature of 36.7° Celsius. Her physical examination was also unremarkable. Initial ECG demonstrated normal sinus rhythm. Chest radiograph showed hyperexpanded lungs with chronic obstructive changes but revealed no acute process. FOCUS performed by a general EP without fellowship training or special interest in ultrasound revealed severely reduced left ventricular systolic function with mid to apical hypokinesis and preservation of basal segments (). The apical 4-chamber and parasternal long axis FOCUS findings can be observed in and , respectively.
Takotsubo cardiomyopathy was strongly suspected based on these findings and the patient’s presentation. She was treated with aspirin and typical measures for acute coronary syndrome and admitted to the cardiology service. Her troponin returned at 595 ng/L and a subsequent ECG showed lateral T-wave inversions. There were no significant changes in vital signs from time of presentation. She underwent a comprehensive echocardiogram that confirmed the FOCUS findings. Because her troponins continued to rise, she underwent a cardiac catheterization the following day, which revealed clean coronary arteries and supported the diagnosis of TCM. Other than the development of atrial fibrillation, her hospital course was unremarkable and she was discharged a few days later. Follow-up echocardiogram seven weeks later demonstrated normal left ventricular function. She was no longer in atrial fibrillation, and the patient reported her symptoms