A 78-year-old male with a medical history significant for hypertension, hyperlipidemia, and chronic smoking underwent evaluation for recurrent chest pain symptoms with coronary angiography. Access was obtained through the right femoral artery and six French sheaths were placed over the guide wire. Coronary angiography did not reveal any evidence of significant coronary artery disease. The sheath was removed without significant problems. A Mynx closure device was deployed and manual pressure was held for five minutes at the access site. The patient tolerated the procedure well and was discharged home the same day and recommended to follow up in the clinic. The patient returned to the clinic two weeks later with complaints of right groin pain, redness, and swelling that has been worsening for last one week. The patient reported that he had groin pain that started a week after the procedure which initially happened during exertion or ambulation and then progressed slowly at rest as well. Follow-up examination revealed a 2 cm mobile, pulsatile, and non-tender right groin mass in the instrumented area with associated bruising of groin and inner thigh and significant edema of the right leg. Lower extremity Doppler ultrasound was performed that showed DVT of the common femoral, superficial femoral and profunda femoral veins (Figure ).
The patient did not report any history of trauma, intravenous drug abuse, prolonged immobilization, family history of blood clots, and recent travel. The patient had computed tomography (CT) scan of the chest, abdomen, and pelvis to further evaluate the etiology and extent of the thrombosis. A CT scan of the pelvis showed right groin pseudoaneurysm 3.1 cm x 2.8 cm. The pseudoaneurysm was compressing the femoral veins which were responsible for DVT in the right common femoral and superficial femoral veins (Figure ).
The patient was started on low molecular weight heparin drip and evaluated by vascular surgery for thrombin injection the next day. Vascular surgery elected not to perform thrombin injection as pseudoaneurysm was found thrombosed in the vascular lab. The patient was started on