Patient 2 is a 19-year-old male adolescent that developed his first motor tics at the age of eight. No other comorbidities were present, and he had a negative family history for tic disorders. Tics started with head shaking, followed by eye blinking and grimaces, and later progressed to his shoulders, arms, trunk and legs. The most debilitating tics were persistent bouts of motor tics in his entire body. He also experienced mild vocal tics like coughing, sniffing and grumbling. At the age of 18, he had to quit school since he was not able to concentrate anymore due to the severity of the tics and because his tics were an unacceptable distraction to fellow students. Medication and behavioural therapy had not been effective in the past. He had used clonidine, pimozide, haloperidol and quetiapine either without lasting positive effects or with intolerable side effects. Between 2007 and 2009 he underwent several psychotherapeutic therapies, among which exposure and response prevention, habit reversal and relaxation training. He was using cannabis daily since he felt it calmed him. This patient fulfilled our selection criteria (Table ) and was indicated for bilateral DBS of the anterior GPi. He agreed to stop using cannabis as part of the treatment agreement, so that better evaluation of symptoms during programming would become possible. The surgery was carried out without complications in March 2016 (at the age of 19).
Within 1 week after the surgery the stimulator was turned on and systematically different stimulation parameters were tested. Initially he experienced increased agitation, but also an increase in tic frequency and severity. Despite he was informed that finding the correct stimulation parameters would take time, he had hoped for an immediate effect on his tics and was disappointed. This resulted in tension, anger and arguments with his supporting parents, making the programming sessions more difficult. In the following weeks, we had several programming sessions at the outpatient department, mainly decreasing the voltage