We report the case of an 82-year-old Afro-Brazilian man (weight 72 kg) who presented to the intensive care unit (ICU) in the immediate postoperative period of elective surgery with signs of hemorrhagic shock. This surgery was performed to treat iliac artery aneurysm with endoleak type 1 to 1B with placement of Endurant™ IIS trimodular prosthesis. His previous medical history included dementia, arterial hypertension, tobacco smoking, ischemic heart disease, and aortic insufficiency. He denied consuming alcohol. At home, he was stable and felt well. He was calm and performed his daily activities under medical supervision, despite early stage dementia. He had no motor deficit, only idle speed typical of the elderly. His blood pressure was controlled, with no clinical signs of heart failure. According to his family, he had a good quality of life. Three months earlier he had undergone vascular surgery to treat an aneurysm in his common iliac artery with endoprosthesis. The surgery had no complications and he was rehabilitated at home. However, 3 days prior to hospital admission he had a computed tomography scan. The result of imaging showed an increase in aneurysm size in his common iliac artery. Then a new surgery was indicated for the treatment of the aneurysm.
The present surgery was performed under general anesthesia, with hemodynamic instability throughout the procedure, which required norepinephrine. Iliac dissection technique was difficult; there was loss of blood and a need for suture and compressive dressing. Cefuroxime was administered intravenously in the operating room at 1.5 g intravenously and maintained every 8 hours postoperatively. In addition, 3500 ml of crystalloid, and 1 unit of RBC were administered. Our patient left the surgery without a distal pulse; 31 mL of contrast was needed. He presented hypotension and alteration of consciousness after anesthesia wore off. His low blood pressure was increased with metaraminol use, a sympathomimetic drug that produces peripheral vasoconstriction (compresses peripheral vessels) by direct action on