A 39-year-old man, taxi driver, known to have hypothyroidism (being treated with levothyroxine) presented to the emergency ward with dyspnea and coughing after exposure to detergents in a closed environment. The patient was smoker (3 pack/year). The only in clinical examinations except for wheezing in the right side of chest. The patient's chest radiography identified a mass. For further investigation, a spiral computerized tomography (CT) scan was performed. Lymph nodes were enlarged on the right side of the trachea, measuring about 23 mm with a mass of 70 × 77 mm, in the vicinity of the right lung hilum. A hypodense nodule in the posterior part of the liver, suspected to be malignant, was also reported (
). The lesions were suspected to be metastatic tumors, therefore, a biopsy of the mass was performed via bronchoscopy. The biopsy results were reported as chronic inflammation and mucosal hyperplasia without malignancy (
), which did not conform to the CT report. The CT has repeated again, and confirmed the previous CT report. A CT guided mass biopsy was performed for pathological evaluation. The result showed chronic granulomatous inflammation, the two most likely causes being tuberculosis (TB) and sarcoidosis. Sputum smear, culture, and PCR were performed to test for TB, and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) levels were measured for sarcoidosis. The results ruled out TB and showed high levels of ACE (ACE = 88 IU/L (normal 8-53)). In report of bronchoscopy, Vocal cord, trachea was normal. Carina was edematous that lead to narrowing of lumen of right bronchus. Two months after the first visit, sarcoidosis was diagnosed and treatment started with prednisolone. Ophthalmology test for eye evaluation, echocardiography for cardiac evaluation and EMG/NCV (Electromyogram test and nerve conduction study) for evaluation of the nervous system were also performed to determine if there was any extra-pulmonary sarcoidosis, however, no lesions were found. After treatment by corticosteroid