A 56-year-old, black, male patient was brought to hospital by the emergency services and admitted to the thoracic service after presenting with acute respiratory failure of unknown cause. He complained of discomfort in the left hemithorax, dry coughing and dyspnea.
He had a history of more than 20 years of alcoholism (spirits) and smoking (1 pack a day for 30 years).
He reported arterial hypertension under control and no other comorbidities.
Physical examination revealed that the patient was in good general health, with good color, good oxygenation, and free from fever. Cardiac auscultation was unremarkable. Pulmonary auscultation revealed rales in the left hemithorax and vesicular murmur was reduced at the ipsilateral base. Extremities exhibited good perfusion and pulses were strong and symmetrical in all limbs.
Thoracentesis was performed, followed by thoracostomy with closed left pleural drainage via underwater seal, because of high volume hemothorax.
The chest drain was removed after 5 days under observation and on the eleventh day in hospital the patient underwent pleuroscopy, which showed residual fluid with traces of blood. On the 12th day he was discharged from hospital with instructions to return for outpatients follow-up at the thoracic surgery service.
Thirty days after hospital discharge, the patient was referred for investigation by the vascular surgery team because of a pulsating swelling in the upper abdomen, with clinical suspicion of a thoracoabdominal aneurysm.
Angiotomography of the chest, abdomen, and pelvis was conducted, ruling out thoracoabdominal aneurysm and raising a diagnostic hypothesis of pseudoaneurysm of the splenic artery, as shown in . Tumoral markers ruled out a diagnosis of pancreatic cancer and high lipase levels confirmed the diagnosis of pancreatitis.
In view of the suspected pseudoaneurysm of the splenic artery, the decision was taken to conduct digital subtraction angiography with selective catheterization of the celiac trunk, which confirmed the diagnosis of pseudoaneurysm of the splenic artery.
Having made this