An 82-year-old man without any symptoms was referred to Hino Municipal Hospital, because of a faint infiltrative shadow observed in the left lower lung field on routine chest radiography (). The patient did not complain of chest wall swelling; however, the physical examination revealed a subcutaneous soft tumor on the left anterolateral chest wall without tenderness or a skin surface abnormality. The transcutaneous oxygen saturation of peripheral artery was 94% under the room air inhalation at the diagnosis. He had never smoked previously and was taking medication for hypertension and asymptomatic cerebral infarction. Contrast medium-enhanced chest computed tomography (CT) revealed an enhancing tumor (58 × 33 mm in size) on the left anterolateral chest wall with destructive changes in the 6th rib bone (), corresponding to the abnormal shadow on the chest radiograph. In addition, a massive filling defect of the right proximal pulmonary artery was detected with pulmonary nodules in the right lung (Figures and ). Importantly, the “mass” in the pulmonary artery was, unlike in CPTE, weakly enhanced with contrast medium. Pulmonary nodules existed only on the ipsilateral side of the pulmonary artery mass and formed a mold-like shape in the peripheral pulmonary arteries. Further examination did not identify another site of suggestive malignancy, except for prostate cancer using body CT and head magnetic response imaging (MRI). A laboratory test did not show any significant abnormalities, including those of D-dimer and tumor markers. These findings implied a possible diagnosis of primary sarcoma of the pulmonary artery with metastases to the lungs and chest wall.
The patient was referred to Keio University Hospital for further examinations. Fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG)-positron emission tomography (PET) showed a positive uptake of FDG to the pulmonary artery tumor (standardized uptake value, SUVmax 5.32), the chest wall tumor (SUVmax 9.56), and lung nodules (highest SUVmax 3.50) (Figures and ), strongly suggesting a primary malignant tumor of the pulmonary artery, but not the