A 64-year-old Caucasian woman referred to our Unit with a 2-month history of a tender lesion on the vestibular gingiva of the posterior left maxillary region. No pain or bleeding associated to the lesion was reported. The patient reported previous history of surgically treated breast cancer. She affirmed a smoking history of 5 cigarettes per day in the last 40 years and occasional alcohol consumption. At the clinical examination, there was a sessile mass of about 1 cm distally to the second molar. The mass was dark red and ulcerated (Fig. ). The consistence was tender; there were no bleeding or pain on palpation. No other lesions in the oral cavity and in the oropharynx, or abnormalities in the head and neck district were reported. CT scan, MRI scan and an incisional biopsy were subsequently performed. Imaging described a 19mm x 15mm x 22 mm mass arising from the posterior alveolar edge of the left maxillary bone, protruding into the vestibule with no signs of bone erosion, or muscular infiltration with regard to the internal and external left pterygoid muscles. No lymphadenopathies were described. The incisional biopsy assessed the presence of a plexiform structured epithelial neoplasm, with basaloid and squamous components; immunohistochemistry showed strong positivity for anticytokeratin antibodies MNF-116, a mild positivity for podoplanin and negativity for calretinin. The overall pattern was suggestive for peripheral ameloblastoma. The patient subsequently underwent the resection of the lesion with surrounding bone tissue and the extraction of the second molar using an intraoral access; a Bichat flap was used for closure. The final pathologic diagnosis was peripheral ameloblastoma, with a plexiform pattern consisting of islands and strands of odontogenic epithelium within a fibrous stroma (Fig. ). The tumor resulted to be strongly positive for CK14 (Fig. ) and diffusely positive for CK19 (Fig. ) and CKAE1-3 (Fig. ). Ki-67 labeling index was 2%. Moreover, expression of pod