A 29-year-old Asian female presented to the emergency department for a progressively worsening rash over the prior week. The eruption originated as a solitary pruritic plaque on her left arm, which over the next two days spread to her trunk and legs. Her family physician initially prescribed a course of valacyclovir for presumed varicella zoster virus infection. She returned to the same provider three days later and the rash was noted to now involve the interdigital aspects of her hands and feet. Permethrin cream was prescribed due to concern for scabies. The lesions continued to worsen and the patient developed a fever and sore throat eight days after the eruption onset. She was subsequently instructed by her primary care provider to go to the emergency department for further evaluation.
In the emergency department, she complained of severe pruritis and painful oral lesions but denied having any painful skin lesions, skin sloughing, or any anogenital lesions. On exam, she was tachycardic to 131 bpm but was afebrile, normotensive, and in no acute distress. Cardiovascular and pulmonary examinations were unremarkable. Cutaneous examination revealed numerous erythematous discrete papules and minimal blanching on the bilaterally distal extremities, face, and neck (). There were also discrete papules coalescing into nonblanching, erythematous plaques on her trunk and proximal extremities (Figures and ). The soft palate did exhibit petechiae, without any erosions or ulcerations. Cervical lymphadenopathy was also appreciated.
The patient had a history of Hodgkin lymphoma diagnosed, in 2007, at the age of 25, which was treated with chemotherapy and electron beam radiotherapy, and has been in remission since then. Medications included venlafaxine for depression and oxcarbazepine for mood stabilization which was started approximately 2 months before. She endorsed allergies to latex and shellfish and admitted smoking less than one pack of cigarettes per day.
A cell blood count was notable for atypical lymphocytes at 9% (