The authors present the case report of a 69-year-old male patient with several cardiovascular risk factors (hypertension, hyperlipidaemia, and previous smoking) and history of coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) 6 years before when the left internal mammary artery (LIMA) was grafted to the left anterior descending artery (LAD), saphenous vein conduit was grafted to posterior descendent artery and left radial artery grafted to the intermediary branch. No medical imaging of the aortic arch and its branches was performed before cardiac surgery.
He had recurrence of angina following the surgery (CCS class II) mainly when exerting the upper limbs. His therapy was adjusted and remained only mildly symptomatic until 2011 when he was referred to for coronary angiography because of gradually worsening exertional angina with no response to medical therapy. There were no neurological or claudication complaints. Physical examination only showed an II/VI systolic murmur. Basal EKG and blood analysis were unremarkable. On the transthoracic echocardiogram, there was only mild aortic sclerosis and good global and segmental systolic left ventricle function.
He had a positive exercise electrocardiographic stress test, showing a 1.5 mm ST segment depression on anterior and inferior leads accompanied by chest pain on 2nd stage Bruce treadmill protocol.
The coronary angiography showed no new lesions in native-vessel circulation or the bypass grafts, except for the occlusion of the saphenous venous conduit grafted to the posterior descendent artery and partial retrograde filling through the LIMA graft from the LAD ().
Subclavian angiography showed a proximal severe stenosis (83%: quantitative coronary angiography) with slow distal flow; there were no significant stenosis in the carotid arteries ().
It was performed an ad hoc, left main percutaneous angioplasty, using a drug-eluting stent 4,0/12 mm (Promus Element) without trifurcation involvement, with final angiographic success (). In a second procedure it was performed a proximal left subclavian artery angioplasty with a balloon-expanded stent (Invatec