A 41-year-old previously healthy male presented to our emergency department with severe crushing chest pain of 2-hour duration. The pain was retrosternal, was crushing, and was associated with profuse sweating. There was no radiation of pain, breathlessness, nausea, or vomiting. He is a known hypertensive on telmisartan. He did not have any other risk factors for coronary artery disease. He was not a smoker, and there was no family history of coronary artery disease. Initial ECG in the emergency room showed ST segment elevation in leads II, III, AVF, V5, and V6. There was reciprocal ST depression in lead AVL, and there was no right ventricular involvement or any conduction disturbances (). On physical examination, his blood pressure was 120/80 mm of Hg and heart rate was 52/minute, and there were no abnormal findings on physical examination.
The patient was administered Aspirin 300 mg orally and clopidogrel 300 mg orally, and thrombolytic therapy was given with intravenous bolus tenecteplase 9000 units followed by enoxaparin 30 mg intravenously and 80 mg subcutaneously twice daily on the subsequent days. Chest pain subsided; ST segment showed resolution (), and it was accompanied by runs of accelerated idioventricular rhythm on the cardiac monitor indicating successful thrombolysis. Cardiac enzymes showed early peaking, and the biochemical examination showed elevated total cholesterol, LDL cholesterol and triglycerides, and normal HDL cholesterol.
He was taken up for coronary angiography after 48 hours for complete revascularization. Coronary angiography showed left dominant system. Right coronary artery was small, nondominant and ends by supplying the right ventricular branches. Left circumflex artery was large ecstatic vessel and gave rise to two large obtuse marginal branches one of which supplies the posterolateral territory. LAD was a large vessel curving around the apex of the left ventricle and continuing as the PDA, and supplying most of the inferior septum and the inferior wall. Distal LAD at the apex was showing 75% narrowing with