A 39-year-old gentleman presented with recurrent shortness of breath, episodes of desaturation, chest pain, and haemoptysis. He was treated for recurrent chest infection. Computerised tomography scan showed a well circumscribed 4 cm diameter mass within the left atrium with some abnormal tissue within the left sided pulmonary veins which showed interval increase in size ().
There was a multifocal ground glass opacity, nodularity, and consolidative changes within the left upper lobe representing a combination of infection, haemorrhage, and infarction ().
Echocardiogram confirmed a large left atrial mass measuring 3.6 by 4.5 cm causing mitral valve obstruction and appears to originate from the left superior pulmonary vein ().
Cardiac magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) showed a large (44 mm × 41 mm HLA) mass in the left atrium that appears to arise from the left upper lobe pulmonary vein and is not attached to the atrial septum (). Following gadolinium there was heterogeneous opacification of the mass with absent filling of the left pulmonary veins.
Median sternotomy, aortic-bicaval cannulation, and standard cardiopulmonary bypass were performed for excision of the left atrial mass. Via a right interatrial grove incision a large pedunculated, fibrous, hard mass with smooth surface occupying two thirds of the left atrium was excised; the pedicle was traced to the left superior pulmonary vein. The mass was adherent to the atrial wall by fibrous tissue which was released. It extended into the left superior pulmonary vein and totally occluding the lumen; the vein felt hard from the outside up into its proximal branches. Similar tissues extending into the right pulmonary veins were excised in the fashion of an endarterectomy. The inferior left pulmonary vein felt normal.
Frozen section of biopsies from the atrial mass and left upper lobe lesion suggested malignancy. A left upper lobectomy was performed.
Postoperative recovery was uneventful. Histology of the atrial mass showed interlacing bundles of spindle cells with eosinophilic cytoplasm and cigar shaped nuclei; in