A 38-year-old Hispanic male, without known cardiovascular diseases presented to the emergency room complaining of two-day history of intermittent palpitations. He also stated having a three-hour pressure-like epigastric discomfort with radiation to the right upper quadrant. The pain started while lifting heavy objects at work and continued intermittently. There was no history of syncopal or presyncopal episodes. His past medical history disclosed multiple episodes of palpitations since the age of 20, but no associated chest pain, a syncopal episode related to exercise a year earlier and negative history of illicit drugs, tobacco, or alcohol intake. Importantly, his father died at the age of 57 due to a massive myocardial infarction.
Upon arrival, blood pressure was 100 mm Hg systolic and 60 mm Hg diastolic; he was tachycardiac with a heart rate of 220 beats per minute. Apart from tachycardia, cardiovascular examination and the rest of physical exam were unremarkable. An electrocardiogram (ECG) showed narrow complex tachycardia with a ventricular rate of 220 beats per minute (). Presumed ST-segment elevation <1 mm was noted only in lead III during tachycardia. Vagal maneuvers were attempted to convert the rhythm but were unsuccessful. Subsequently, successive intravenous boluses injection of adenosine at doses of 6 and 12 mg were administered with successful conversion to sinus rhythm (). As the rhythm returned to sinus, significant ST segment elevation in the inferior leads and reciprocal changes as well as right bundle branch block were appreciated (). At this point, the patient was still having epigastric discomfort, and repeated troponin I was elevated with a maximum value of 0.32. Therapy for acute coronary syndrome was started including aspirin, clopidogrel, statins, metoprolol, and intravenous nitroglycerine. Anticoagulation was not administered since the patient was emergently transported to the catheterization laboratory within 30 minutes. When the patient arrived to the catheterization laboratory, the ST-segment elevation had resolved with marked relief of his symptoms. Coronary angiography