A previously healthy 48-year-old female presented to the emergency department with sudden onset right scapular and right thoracic chest pain, as well as shortness of breath with exertion. She had no previous cardiovascular history and her only cardiac risk factor was a four pack-year history of smoking.
On physical examination, her vital signs and cardiovascular examination were normal. There was no evidence of congestive cardiac failure or murmurs. She had tenderness to palpation inferior to her right scapula. Shoulder examination was otherwise normal. Serial cardiac enzymes were negative; however, her resting ECG showed T-wave inversions in leads V1–V3. Her chest X-ray did not show cardiomegaly or signs of pulmonary edema.
In the emergency department, it was suspected that her scapular pain was musculoskeletal in nature, as there was a clear history of repetitive strain and the pain responded to simple analgesics. On the other hand, her thoracic chest pain, exertional symptoms, and nonspecific T wave changes were still unexplained.
Upon further questioning, she reported a similar acute presentation of right thoracic chest pain two years ago while visiting overseas. She had a brief hospital stay at the time; however, a definitive diagnosis was not made. Since that time, she had described frequent episodes of shortness of breath and thoracic chest discomfort precipitated by moderate exercise and relieved within five minutes of rest. Given the potential ischaemic nature of these symptoms, her primary care physician had previously referred her for formal cardiac investigation. An exercise-stress test had been inconclusive and a dobutamine stress echo (DSE) was negative for ischaemia.
While in hospital, a standard transthoracic echocardiogram (TTE) was performed; it showed normal LV size and systolic function, no valvular abnormalities, and no evidence of diastolic dysfunction. The TTE was remarkable for very unusual colour Doppler signals in the right ventricle (Figures and ). There was a prominent pattern of diastolic flow within the right ventricular myocardium, especially along the interventricular