An 83-year-old male, who weighed 67 kg and was 170 cm tall, presented to our hospital in the spring of 2012 with a non-ST elevation myocardial infarction and congestive heart failure. He was referred for coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) by the interventional cardiology after an angiogram demonstrated coronary disease not amenable to percutaneous intervention. Specifically, he had a significant triple-vessel disease which had progressed in the context of two previous angiograms with the placement of coronary stents in 1997 and 2000.
His past medical history included hypertension, dyslipidemia, a remote history of smoking, and of note, an episode of aspiration (of a carrot) at age 2 years that required a tracheostomy. Subsequent to his tracheostomy, multiple airway surgeries were completed over the following 8 years that resulted in significant supra and subglottic airway stenosis, as demonstrated on bronchoscopy approximately 10–15 years ago. As this stenosis did not impair his exercise tolerance, he elected to not pursue any corrective measures at that time.
Due to his airway concerns, anaesthesiology took special precautions in attempting to intubate the patient for his coronary artery bypass grafting. Despite multiple complex manoeuvres and the assistance of multiple airway experts, oral endotracheal intubation was unsuccessful and the process was abandoned. He was admitted to our intensive care unit awake and alert for observation on oxygen via nasal prongs at 3 L/min, with saturations of 99%.
After discussions between the cardiac surgery, interventional cardiology, anaesthesiology, and critical care teams and with consent from the patient, it was decided that an awake percutaneous tracheotomy would the best option to facilitate progression to CABG.
Owing to the complex airway issues, this was deemed a high risk procedure leading to the careful selection of the procedural sedation. Typical agents such as benzodiazepines and neuromuscular blocking agents were deemed unsuitable as they would impair the patient's respiratory drive and protective reflexes, especially in the event of an unsuccessful procedure. The pharmacological characteristics of dexmedetomidine