A 38-year old, previously healthy man presented on his first admission with a 5-day history of dizziness, slurring of speech and disturbance of gait and balance. There was a family history of multiple sclerosis (paternal grandfather and a paternal cousin) but not of any other cerebellar disease. The patient smoked 30 cigarettes per day for the last 25 years. Neurological examination revealed dysarthria, trunk and gait ataxia and exaggerated tendon reflexes of the upper and lower limbs. Spontaneous nystagmus was absent and pursuit eye movements were smooth. Routine hematology was normal but the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) showed elevated cell count (407 lymphocytes/μl) and protein (1 g/l) while glucose and lactate were normal. CSF cytology provided no evidence of malignant cells but oligoclonal IgG bands were detected in the CSF. HSV- and VZV-PCRs were negative. Cerebellitis caused by an unknown infectious agent was suspected and a polyvalent intravenous therapy with aciclovir, ceftriaxone and ampicilline was initiated which halted disease progression. Cerebral MRI was unremarkable. During the next months he underwent two neurorehabilitation treatments without relevant efficacy on the residual symptoms, but 10 months after disease onset he rapidly deteriorated.
On admission this time he reported severe gait and trunk unsteadiness, difficulties in writing, massive slurring of speech and problems of swallowing. On physical examination he showed a substantial weight loss of 15 kg over the last 12 months but no enlargement of lymph nodes. Neurological examination revealed a cerebellar syndrome with an exaggerated horizontal nystagmus during lateral gaze and a scanning dysarthria. Fixation suppression of the vestibulo-ocular reflex was abolished. There was no muscle weakness or sensory loss and his limb reflexes were normal but plantar responses were bilaterally extensor. He showed severe dysmetria of all four limbs and trunk and gait ataxia. Walking without aid was impossible.
Routine biochemistry and hematology were again normal. Cranial MRI now showed marked cerebellar