A 37-year-old woman was admitted to our hospital for the treatment of a tracheoesophageal fistula. Medical history revealed that she had epilepsy and took anticonvulsant medication continuously from the age of 10 years. When the patient was 29 years old, she had an epileptic seizure when a fire occurred, and she suffered from smoke inhalation. Chronic coughing and breathing difficulties appeared a few months after the fire. The symptoms gradually worsened, and hospital consultation was obtained two years afterward. As a result of a thorough examination, she was diagnosed as having breathing difficulty due to tracheal strangulation. A noncovered, metallic Ultraflex Tracheobronchial Stent (Boston Scientific Corporation, Natick, MA) was inserted approximately 2 years after the fire. Since there was no evidence of congenital disease, the cause of tracheal stenosis was attributed to smoke inhalation based on her history. Although her condition improved after stent insertion, repeated bronchoscopic medical treatment was carried out for modification of the stent and granulation formation.
One year after stent insertion, the patient experienced postprandial obstruction. Since the airway narrowing had worsened, she returned to the hospital. An attempt was made to remove the stent completely. However, it was possible to extract only part of the stent due to adhesion of the stent and the trachea. The stent had been inserted in the trachea on the proximal side while the tracheotomy was performed. Subsequently, food was discharged from the tracheotomy, and a tracheoesophageal fistula was diagnosed. For this reason, nutrition was provided primarily via the gastrostoma.
When the patient was 37 years old, she was admitted to our hospital for a procedure to remove the stent and close the tracheoesophageal fistula. Computed tomographic (CT) scans showed strangulation of the stent on the proximal side from the tracheotomy. The part of the stent distal from the tracheotomy was not a circular form. The deepest part of the stent was inferior to the left innominate vein (). Based on the reconstruction