In August 2013, a 63-year-old woman presented with a gradual onset of decreased exercise tolerance, dyspnea, and a heavy feeling in the chest. Otherwise she was in good health with no relevant concomitant diseases. She denied fever, hemoptysis, weight loss, or other constitutional symptoms. There was no drug, alcohol, or nicotine abuse. She took no medication and there was no recent surgery or trauma. On physical examination we found a decreased breath sound over the right hemithorax and dullness to percussion at the right side of the thorax. There were no signs of peripheral oedema or ascites. She did not have any peripheral lymphadenopathy or enlarged spleen and liver. Laboratory values were normal for a white blood cell count of 5.9 × 109/L, a hematocrit of 44%, and a platelet count of 192 × 109/L. Her creatinine was within normal range and albumin was 42 g/L, with a total protein of 76 g/dL. Furthermore lactate dehydrogenase and tests for glutamic-oxaloacetic transaminase, serum glutamic-pyruvic transaminase, alkaline phosphatase, and bilirubin were all normal. The posteroanterior chest radiograph on admission confirmed a large right pleural effusion (). On admission, the effusion was drained showing a turbid and milky white appearance. Biochemical tests on the fluid showed a high triglyceride content (79 mmol/L) in the form of chylomicrons with cholesterol levels as low as 4.6 mmol/L. Further cytological analysis showed the presence of lymphocytosis but no malignant cells. Flow cytometry confirmed the absence of B-cell or T-cell lymphoma. Further imaging with PET-CT was initiated searching for the underlying disease. This revealed a PET positive bulky intraperitoneal tumour around the abdominal aorta and pancreas extending to the pelvic inlet (). There was a heterogeneous contrast enhancement and clear encasement of nearby arteries and veins. No enlarged mediastinal lymph nodes or suspect gynaecological malignancy was seen. In our case, the disruption occurred apparently below