A 64-year-old Caucasian woman presented to her local district general hospital with a subacute progression of ataxia, initially diagnosed in the community as labyrinthitis. Her past medical history was only notable for a thyroidectomy in 1993 for a papillary carcinoma, which was considered cured at subsequent follow-up. Her only regular medication was thyroxin and she had no allergies, occupational exposure to hazardous materials, or family history of note. She neither smoked nor drank alcohol.
Upon transfer to our hospital, clinical examination demonstrated marked confusion, ataxia, and horizontal nystagmus; power, muscle tone, and deep tendon reflexes were normal. There were no significant chest, abdominal, or other physical findings and temperature was normal. An MRI of her brain showed bilateral parenchymal oedema and leptomeningeal/cortical enhancement associated with the cingulate and superior sagittal gyrus (). A lumbar puncture revealed opening CSF pressure >34 cm H2O (the maximum value on the manometers used) with reactive cytology (although no white blood cells were detected upon automatic counting, cytospin analysis revealed lymphocytes and plasma cells together with macrophages and an occasional eosinophil; no neoplastic cells were observed) and raised CSF protein (742 mg/L). A staging CT revealed a mass in the right upper lobe of the patient's lung with a satellite nodule (image not shown) and a plan for CT guided biopsy was made. Serum angiotensin converting enzyme was normal and an electroencephalogram showed no epileptiform activity.
Detailed questioning by the rheumatologist elicited a history of two years of joint pain responsive to NSAIDs, two episodes of an inflammatory eye disease (likely episcleritis) treated successfully with topical steroids, and intermittent nose bleeds, though none recent. A provisional diagnosis of GPA was suggested, with differential diagnoses including infection (particularly tuberculosis) and cancer, possibly with a paraneoplastic syndrome. However, strongly positive c-ANCA specific for PR3 suggested a vasculitic condition and the patient was commenced on intravenous methylprednisolone,