A 48-year-old man presented to the emergency department (ED) with progressive chest pain which intensified with inspiration. Earlier that day for the first time, he had had an episode of impaction of a fish oil tablet which was resolved by inducing vomiting. This is when the chest pain started and progressively increased. In the ED, he was initially worked up for a cardiac event and pulmonary embolus, both of which were negative. A computed tomographic (CT) scan of his chest revealed thickening of the esophageal wall as well as evidence of air/gas that appeared to dissect a plane of the esophagus. The CT also revealed extraluminal air suggestive of esophageal perforation. An upper endoscopy with stent placement was performed. The esophageal biopsy taken at this time showed inflammation with increased eosinophils in both the upper and lower esophagus parts. Histological sections of the esophagus showed basal cell hyperplasia, interstitial edema, and intraepithelial eosinophils up to 30 eosinophils per high power field (HPF) in the proximal and distal esophagus. The patient was discharged on a liquid diet, antibiotics, and a proton pump inhibitor. The stent was left in situ for 17 days and then was removed without difficulty. A repeat endoscopy three months later showed basal cell thickening, intercellular edema, and up to 20 eosinophils/HPF in the proximal and distal esophagus. This endoscopy also revealed stricture in the total esophagus and a ringed esophagus consistent with EoE. He was then referred to the allergy/immunology clinic for further evaluation. The clinical picture along with pathological findings was consistent with a diagnosis of EoE. Following the diagnosis of EoE, the patient began treatment with topical fluticasone propionate with complete symptom resolution. Repeat endoscopy on topical steroid for several months showed up to 3 eosinophils/HPF and mild inflammation and the patient had resolution of his symptoms.
The patient had a long standing history of dysphagia for the past 20–25 years predominantly with solid foods. He usually needed to chew his food for extended duration