A 63-year-old woman presented to the ED with acute onset of chest pain, nausea, and vomiting after eating dinner. Acute coronary syndrome and pulmonary embolism were ruled out. She then developed several episodes of coffee-ground emesis while in the ED and 50cc of bright red blood was drained through a nasogastric tube. An emergency upper endoscopy revealed a feline esophagus and a linear esophageal tear. No biopsies were taken at that time due to acute bleeding. The esophageal tear was treated with epinephrine and three surgical clips. An esophagogastroduodenoscopy was performed four weeks later. Histological sections of the esophagus showed basal cell hyperplasia and intraepithelial eosinophils greater than 20/HPF. The patient was treated with a proton pump inhibitor and a swallowable topical steroid intermittently with variable response. She was referred to the allergy/immunology clinic for further evaluation three years later. She was initially restarted on a proton pump inhibitor and repeat endoscopy 8 weeks later showed possible esophageal rings consistent with EoE and 20 eosinophils/HPF. The clinical picture along with pathological findings was consistent with a diagnosis of EoE. She is currently awaiting reevaluation for additional medication treatment.
After the initial presentation of the esophageal tear, the patient started to notice symptoms of dysphagia predominantly with solid foods. At least once or twice weekly, she felt that the food was impacted in her upper chest and this sensation was relieved by inducing emesis. She also reported intermittent symptoms of heartburn and oral pruritus with strawberries and eggs. She has no history of asthma or allergic rhinitis. Her past medical history was significant for esophageal spasms, diverticulitis, hiatal hernia, hypercholesterolemia, and hyperlipidemia. Family history was significant for asthma, allergic rhinitis, and atopic dermatitis. She denied any alcohol or tobacco use. A skin prick test done as part of the allergy evaluation was negative for all foods tested and positive for trees and dust mites.