A 44-year-old woman with a six-month history of progressive hoarseness and an abnormal sensation in the throat was referred to the Nanjing Drum Tower Hospital (Nanjing, China). The patient had no history of smoking, coughing, dyspnea or dysphagia; however, it is worth noting that the patient was exposed to iron ore and coal dust for several years in the work place. In addition, the patient had a history of over five years of second-hand smoke inhalation.
Fiberoptic laryngoscopy revealed swelling of the left ventricular fold and laryngeal ventricle that extended backwards to the left aryepiglottic fold. The bilateral vocal cords appeared normal and there was no vocal cord paralysis (). The patient subsequently refused any further examinations. The laryngeal abnormal sensation gradually progressed, and after 18 months the patient underwent a second laryngoscopy, which revealed similar findings to the first without obvious progression (). Computed tomography (CT) revealed a mass involving the left ventricular fold and anterior commissure. The left pyriform sinus was not distinguished (). Neither physical examination or neck CT detected any tumescent lymph nodes in the neck, and the chest X-ray was normal.
The preoperative diagnosis that was deemed most likely was that of a laryngeal neoplasm with laryngeal amyloidosis. The subsequent frozen section biopsy of the lesion taken during laryngofissure revealed the nature of the neoplasm. As the patient refused to undergo an expanded total laryngectomy, which is indicated for a locally advanced laryngeal tumor (), local resection of the left ventricular fold, laryngeal ventricle and aryepiglottic fold was performed only (). The margin of the biopsied tissue surrounding the lesion was negative. Although there was no sign of lymphatic spreading, perineural invasion existed, therefore, it was suggested that radiotherapy be performed at one month post-surgery (). However, one month later and prior to this radiotherapy, regional recurrence of the tumor was identified. With informed consent from the patient, a