A 34-year-old male with past medical history of protein S deficiency presented to emergency room with a two-week history of worsening headaches and three-day history of subjective fevers, nausea, and vomiting. Over the counter medications did not relieve his symptoms. On the day of presentation, he experienced difficulty in walking and according to his friends he seemed to be mildly confused. He neither complained of any visual changes nor had any seizures. He is of Indian origin, professional, and married with a child. His history was negative for smoking, alcohol, and illicit drug use. He came to United States six months prior to onset of these symptoms for his job. He did not have any sick contacts with or exposure to wildlife. He did not receive any vaccination within the recent past.
On physical examination his vital signs are within normal limits. He was oriented to only person and place but he did not have any other focal neurological deficits. Other systems examinations were within normal limits. His initial basic labs were within normal limits. Computerized tomography (CT) scan of head did not reveal any acute intracranial process.
A spinal tap was performed and patient was started on empiric antibiotic therapy and Acyclovir. Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) analysis was consistent with aseptic meningitis (White Blood Cell Count (WBC)-287 cells/mL with lymphocytic predominance, glucose at 30 mg/100 mL, and protein at 236 mg/100 mL) and did not reveal any albuminocytological dissociation. Based on CSF findings, antibiotics were discontinued, Acyclovir was continued, and its course was completed.
On the second day of admission, his mental status worsened; he developed seizure and went into respiratory failure which needed intubation. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) brain performed during that time course revealed symmetrical increased T-2 (Figures and ) signal in bilateral basal ganglia, thalami, and middle cerebellar peduncles and did not show any gross enhancement on postcontrast images except for small