The patient is a 32-year-old G4P2012 admitted at 23 6/7 weeks of gestation for fetal tachycardia. The fetal heart rate was noted to be persistently between 180 and 190 beats per minute, which is shown in . Fetal ECHO revealed a structurally normal heart, with an isolated pericardial effusion which is demonstrated in . The patient's past medical history was significant for Graves' disease for which she underwent radioactive iodine ablation 2 years earlier. She became hypothyroid soon thereafter and has been maintained on thyroid replacement. Her current dose is 150 mcg daily. She had two prior full term vaginal deliveries without complication and one first trimester elective abortion. Her past surgical history was significant for a laparoscopic appendectomy. She denied tobacco, alcohol, or illicit drug use. On arrival to labor and delivery, the fetal tachycardia was again noted. Laboratory studies revealed a normal metabolic and thyroid profile. Stimulating thyroid antibodies were drawn but not yet available. The patient had a normal EKG. Because of the persistence of the fetal tachycardia and the pericardial effusion, the decision was made to treat the fetal tachycardia with maternally administered digoxin. Although there was suspicion that the tachycardia may be secondary to thyroid stimulating immunoglobulins (TSIs), the decision was made to start with our usual first-line drug for SVT in the absence of confirmatory results. The patient was loaded with IV digoxin and subsequently placed on an oral maintenance dose of 0.375 mg daily. She was discharged home with close follow-up.
Despite having a maternal digoxin level as high as 2.5 ng/mL, the tachycardia persisted. Over the following week, she complained of increasing nausea. A maternal EKG showed nonspecific changes. The thyroid stimulating antibodies returned significantly elevated at 195% of basal activity. The digoxin was discontinued, and Sotalol 80 mg PO bid was begun. There was no significant improvement over the following few days with the fetal heart rate between 170 and 190 bpm. The Sotalol was increased to 120 mg