A 59-year-old Chinese woman was admitted to the hospital with the chief complaint of a progressively enlarging mass in the left thoracic wall over the past seven months. At the initial examination, the tumor slightly protruded from the chest wall with the 2 cm in diameter, and gradually grew over in the past several months. In one month ago, she underwent a percutaneous transthoracic needle biopsy of the mass in another hospital. Following the puncture, the tumor promptly increased significantly in size, impacting blood flow to the left arm. On this admission, we conducted a physical examination and palpated the soft painless left lateral chest wall large mass with the 9 cm in diameter. She denied smoking history and had no family history of lung cancer. A review of her systems was noncontributory. The results of a peripheral blood count, baseline serum chemistry screening, and urinalysis were normal on admission, as were tumor biomarker tests and a purified protein derivative test for tuberculosis.
Enhanced chest computed tomography (CT) with three-dimensional reconstruction of the ribs showed an enormous soft tissue mass in the left chest wall (Figure ), which extended into the left lung and mediastinum, exerted pressure on the heart, skewing it to the right, and had eroded the middle portion of the fifth rib. The density of the tissue mass was uneven and a necrotic area was visible. The maximum cross-sectional diameter of the tumor mass was 13.3 × 15.7 cm2. Moreover, an ECT bone scan also demonstrated the destruction of the middle of the fifth rib. In additional, a CT scan of her abdomen and magnetic resonance imaging of her brain were all normal. Her bronchial tree also appeared normal on bronchoscopic examination, with no indication of malignancy in the biopsy and washings procured.
After anesthesia and a double-lumen intubation had been established, a left posterolateral incision was performed. The chest wall tumor invaded the left upper pulmonary lobe as well as the fourth