In July 2012, a 58-year-old female was admitted to the Department of Orthopedics of the Guanghua Integrative Medicine Hospital, Changning District (Shanghai, China) due to left plantar heel pain without any inducing factors. The symptom was aggravated for six months when walking and standing. The patient had been diagnosed with CPHP in a local hospital without any auxiliary examination six months prior to admittance. There had been no obvious relief of the symptom following anti-inflammatory and analgesic treatment. The patient was admitted to the Guanghua Integrative Medicine Hospital, Changning District after the heel pain became increasingly severe for several days, particularly during weight-bearing. The patient had no fever, radiating pain to the left lower limb, night pain or numbness of local skin. Examination demonstrated that the skin on each side of the left calcaneus was slightly deep in color and the soft tissue was mildly swollen. Tenderness was identified at the end of the plantar fascia below the heel. There was no paresthesia of the surrounding skin, and the motion of the foot and ankle was normal. The patient was healthy with a normal diet prior to the emergence of the symptom. There was no progressive weight loss. The patient had never smoked and had no cough, expectoration or hemoptysis and denied having contracted any contagious diseases.
Foot and ankle radiographs showed spurs in the left heel and an osteolytic lesion of the calcaneus (). A computed tomography (CT) scan revealed an occupied lesion of the calcaneus with bone destruction, which was considered to be a malignant tumor (). Magnetic resonance imaging indicated the same result (). The chest CT scan presented an occupied lesion in the posterior segment of the right upper lung lobe, considered as a peripheral lung cancer (). A bone scan showed abnormalities in the left calcaneus. The results of routine blood analyses of the erythrocyte sedimentation rate, C-reactive protein and alkaline phosphatase levels