A 52-year-old male patient was admitted to our interventional radiology unit with pain, swelling and color change in the left inguinal region following therapeutic angiography. Laboratory tests showed progressive reduction in hemoglobin levels. In the diagnostic angiography that was performed two days earlier, partial occlusion in the left anterior descending artery was observed and 1 day before the patient was referred to us, he had undergone percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty with stent placement. The patient was under thrombolytic-anticoagulant therapy at the time of angioplasty. He had been smoking one-pack-cigarette/day for the last 40 years and he had high blood pressure. No additional important information was detected in his medical history.
In the gray scale ultrasonographic examination, a 43×26 mm pulsatile cystic lesion was observed in the left groin. Doppler ultrasound (US) examination showed “to and fro blood flow” inside the lesion. Based on these findings, the patient was diagnosed as IPA, but IPA and the morphology of its neck could not be demonstrated clearly with US. To detect the morphology, the origin, and the neck of IPA, multidetector computed tomographic angiography (MDCTA) was recommended. US-guided compression was done for 20 minutes, as well. Following compression treatment, a thrombus that formed one third of the size of the IPA was detected. The patient was recommended to sleep and bed rest in the supine position, and pressure was applied on his left groin and he was observed for one day.
In 64-MDCTA (Aquilion, Toshiba Medical Systems, Tokyo, Japan) and control Doppler US examination, IPA was originated from SEPA and the common femoral artery was normal (). In addition, an inguinal hernia containing small intestinal loops was detected in the right inguinal region (). Iatrogenic pseudoaneurysm was 36×23 mm in size and there was a 10 mm thrombus inside it. US-guided compression treatment was applied for the second time for the patient