A 34-year-old Polish Caucasian male was admitted to the Dermatology Clinic of the Poznan University of Medical Sciences due to the presence of an erythematous, exfoliating, clearly distinct lesion located on the index finger of the right hand, spreading onto surrounding areas (Figs. , ).
The first signs of the disease had appeared in August 2012, after a contact with raw fish—the patient is a cook. Due to a suspicion of erysipeloid, the patient underwent an antibiotic therapy (intravenous clindamycin, 2 × 600 mg daily, for the period of 5 days) coupled with steroids administered topically.
A series of diagnostic examinations were carried out during his hospitalization. A swab for bacteriological, skin biopsy for histopathological and a sample for mycological examinations were acquired. The bacterial culture was found to be positive for Enterococcus faecalis. The direct mycological examination was negative. Other examinations, such as the mycological culture and histopathology, were awaited for during the stay of the patient at the clinic. Due to the lack of significant improvement, the patient was discharged, while any further procedures were performed on an outpatient basis at the Dermatology Counseling Service of the clinic.
The results of the histopathological examination indicated a widened, swollen epidermis with a thickened stratum granulosum and a thick stratum corneum, in which there were numerous, round, fungal spores of 2.5 μm in diameter (Figs. , ). On the other hand, the result of the mycological culture was negative. Due to discrepancies in the results, a second sample for mycological examination was acquired during a follow-up appointment. This time the results of the direct mycological examination were positive.
Itraconazole (daily dose 100 mg) was administered orally. Additionally, an imidazole derivative was administered topically. The patient claimed an improvement in his dermatological condition after 2 weeks.
The mycological cultures were maintained for 20 days at 25 °C on two kinds of media: S