A 64-year old white English male was presented to the vascular outpatient clinic with history of a lump behind his right ankle on inner aspect over a year. Apart from the presence of a lump, he denied any other complaints including any violent or repeated trauma. He also suffered from diet controlled Type II diabetes mallitus and gout and had tonsillectomy and manipulation of colles’ fracture in childhood. He was not taking any antiplatelet or anti-coagulation medications and denied any use of tobacco. On examination, there was 3 × 3 cm size lump just behind the right medial malleous which was non-tender and non-pulsatile. The peripheral pulses were easily palpable on either side. There was no evidence of aneurysm anywhere else in the body on clinical examination. He underwent Doppler ultrasound which confirmed 1.4 cm size aneurysm of posterior tibial artery with presence of mural thrombus. The distal and proximal parts of posterior tibial artery, anterior tibial artery and popliteal artery were reported normal. He underwent an elective operation in the form of excision of aneurysm (Figure ) followed by reversed vein graft from the same leg (Figure ). Histology confirmed the true aneurysm of posterior tibial artery with mural thrombus attached to the intima of the vessel with normal arterial wall pattern without any evidence of connective tissue disorders, arteritis, necrotizing vasculitis, infection or inflammation (Figures , , and ). The bacteriology examination neither revealed any organisms nor grown any organisms in the culture media. He recovered well postoperatively and was discharged the next day. At follow up at one year, he did not develop any complications and colour Doppler revealed patent posterior tibial artery.
False aneurysms are more common in comparison to the true aneurysms of infrapatellar blood vessels. There have been only very few case reports of true aneurysms of posterior tibial artery published [,]. The precise aetiological factors are not identified, but trauma, collagen vascular pathology, fibromuscular dysplasia, inflammation, infection and