A 35-year-old right hand dominant housewife presented to The Queen Elizabeth Hospital emergency department with spontaneous onset with 2-day history of swollen and tender left middle finger metacarpophalangeal joint. No history of trauma was recalled. She is a smoker and had laparoscopic cholecystectomy many years ago secondary to cholelithiasis. On further questioning, she reported a similar episode 2 weeks prior at the same joint. However, the symptoms settled within 24 hours and did not prompt her to seek medical attention. On examination, the affected joint was swollen, exquisitely painful on passive movement, erythematous, and warm to touch. Biochemical study showed normal calcium, phosphate, parathyroid hormone, vitamin D, and thyroid function level. X-ray showed a prominent area of soft tissue calcification projected just dorsolateral to the head of the middle finger metacarpal bone measuring 12 mm × 4 mm in diameter (). Ultrasound-guided biopsy was unable to aspirate any sample due to the relative solid nature of the lesion. Initial differential diagnosis was either a crystalline arthropathy or early septic arthritis and empirical therapy (intravenous cefazolin and oral colchicine) for both conditions were commenced. Minimal improvement was observed overnight, and the decision was therefore made to perform an arthrotomy and irrigation of the joint. Perioperatively, access to the lesion was achieved by a single curvilinear dorsal incision. A single gouty tophus like structure was found external to the joint, but infiltrating into the collateral ligaments of the joint (). Sharp dissection was done from paratenon to joint capsule. The lesion was excised and deposits removed from collateral ligament as much as possible. There was no evidence of ulceration or fistula formation with the superficial skin. Histology showed a circumscribed ovoid mass of amorphous granular calcific debris containing sparse macrophages and lymphocytes and having a peripheral rim of dense fibrotic tissue, typical of tumoral calcinosis at an inactive late stage. In addition, the calcific