A 59-year-old female was referred to Asahi University Murakami Memorial Hospital (Gifu, Japan), with acute pain in the right molars. There was no history of tobacco or alcohol use, however, the patient had suffered from hyperlipidemia several years previously.
Initial observations revealed right buccal swelling and paresthesia of the mental nerve. An intraoral examination revealed a normal oral mucosa, however, percussion pain was experienced between the lower right first premolar and second molar. The routine panoramic radiograph showed a retained lower right wisdom tooth and an irregular radiolucent area between the lower right molar and mandibular angle, with unclear margins (). In addition, computed tomography (CT) revealed a large oval mass, 44×31×35 mm in size, at the right angle of the mandible between the second premolar and ramus, with extensive bony destruction of the lingual and buccal cortex and pathological lymph node enlargement at the right submandibular lesion ().
Laboratory results revealed that the white blood cell count was 5,400 cells/μl and the C reactive protein level was 0.3 mg/dl.
Following a biopsy of the lesion, squamous cell carcinoma arising from an epithelial lining of an odontogenic cyst was diagnosed. Two weeks after diagnosis, radical surgery (a hemi-mandibulectomy with primary suture and reconstruction using a titan reconstruction plate and modified radical neck dissection) was performed under general anesthesia.
Intraoperative observations revealed that the tumor had extended through the buccal and lingual cortex and invaded the masseter and internal pterygoid muscles. In addition, pathological examination of the surgical specimen revealed squamous cell carcinoma with an intact squamous epithelium, which was observed to be overlying the tumor (). Lymph node metastasis was not observed in the neck lymph nodes. A positive margin was present in the specimen at the end of the inferior alveolar nerve, therefore the patient received post-operative radiotherapy, and chemotherapy. External beam irradiation was performed five times