A 61-year-old woman complaining from dysphagia for 6 months as well as dysphonia and dyspnoea for 2 months was referred to the ENT Department at the University Hospital of Ferrara in April 2012. The patient also reported weight loss of about 5-6 pounds in the last months before. She had a history of smoking, hypertension, diabetes, hypercholesterolemia, vascular encephalopathy, and multiple vascular diseases. In particular, she underwent bilateral carotid arteries thromboendarterectomy. She also had vascular surgery for aortic dissection in the previous years; the last CT angiographies also showed a dissection of the left common carotid artery (with severe lumen reduction) and several calcified atheromatic lesions of thoracic and abdominal aorta.
The ENT evaluation disclosed the presence of an epiglottic laryngeal face neoformation. No lymph nodes were detectable clinically at the neck inspection. The remaining head and neck exam was unremarkable.
The patient underwent head, neck, and chest contrast CT scans that disclosed the presence of a lesion, with inhomogeneous contrast enhancement of a transverse diameter of 25 × 17 mm and a craniocaudal extension of 22 mm, in correspondence to the laryngeal side of the epiglottis. The scan also showed a left submandibular lymph node of 10 × 14 mm, as well as some bilateral jugular and subcentrimetic digastric lymph nodes with reactive features. Nonetheless, the fine needle aspiration cytology (ultrasound-guided) of the lymph nodes revealed lymphocytes at different stages of maturation and no neoplastic cells.
A biopsy under local anaesthesia was then performed. Since the histological examination disclosed the malignant nature of the lesion, and considering the important comorbidities of the patient, she was evaluated by a multidisciplinary team (composed of the ENT surgeon, the vascular surgeon, the anaesthesiologist, the oncologist, and the radiation therapy oncologist), in order to establish the best possible treatment. It was therefore decided to perform a microlaryngoscopy in order to evaluate the possibility of an endoscopic surgical excision of the laryngeal