A 52-year-old female presented to the emergency department for acute pain and numbness in the left arm. She was known for arterial hypertension and gout, and was a former 30 pack-year smoker and obese (BMI 37). Two weeks prior to this presentation, she had been diagnosed with extensive DVT of unknown origin of the right leg (popliteal, tibial posterior and great saphenous veins) with bilateral legs superficial venous thrombosis. She was started on enoxaparin 1 mg/kg SC BID.
On arrival, she complained of intense left hand pain that suddenly developed a few hours earlier, accompanied by progressive left hand weakness. She denied having night sweats, fever, recurrent infections or bleeding. She had noted a slight subjective weight loss and fatigue in the last 6 weeks. No neurological, mucocutaneous or visual symptoms were reported. She was compliant with her medication.
She was hemodynamically stable. A complete physical examination was unremarkable, except for the exquisite left hand pain with coldness, pallor and pulselessness up to the elbow.
Acute left hand ischemia was suspected and an angiography scanner was performed. It confirmed the diagnosis of acute thrombosis of the left axillary artery and chronic thrombosis of the left subclavian artery with occlusive emboli in distal left ulnar artery. She underwent local arterial thrombolysis and then was started on IV heparin with fast symptoms improvement.
Local thrombolysis was performed twice again over the next 10 days because of recurrent episodes of left arm ischemia with thrombi progression in the brachial, radial and ulnar arteries. The decision to switch to IV argatroban was made due to repeated episodes of thrombosis with therapeutic levels of IV heparin, thus suspecting a “heparin resistance” ().
Unfortunately, the left upper limb ischemia persisted after the third local arterial thrombolysis and the patient undergone a surgical embolectomy of left radial and ulnar arteries with left carotido-humeral bypass. Signs and symptoms of ischemia rapidly recovered post-operatively and