A 38-year-old male recent immigrant from the Dominican Republic presents to the emergency department with chief complaint of hemoptysis of two-week duration. The hemoptysis was associated with an increased shortness of breath and dry cough which began two months prior to admission and had progressively worsened. The patient further described right-sided chest pain, intermittent, 5/10, sharp, gnawing/dragging in nature radiating to the shoulders especially upon recumbency and relieved with sitting upright or leaning forward. He further describes neck pain and fullness, as well as progressive heaviness of the arms bilaterally with decreased strength and intermittent lack of ability to grasp objects. The patient had no significant past medical history and had never smoked in the past and no significant occupational/environmental exposures.
Further review of the patients past medical history revealed history of a doctor's visit 18 months prior to admission for similar complaints in the Dominican Republic based on reports provided by the patient; computed tomography of the chest along with “neurologic testing” were completed at that time. Documentation provided at this time by the patient of CT chest showed a right superior lobe pulmonary nodule measuring 1.8 × 1.5 cm. The patient, however, was discharged with a diagnosis of bronchitis and was treated with a course of antibiotics, and patient was lost to follow up.
Physical examination revealed tachycardia, ruddy discoloration of the face, and neck and upper chest with marked fullness noted around the neck extending from the superior aspect of the chest to the angle of the jaw. Examination revealed diminished ability and difficulty to sustain upward gaze for greater than 20 seconds was further noted. Snellen's card exam revealed visual acuity of 20/30 on the right and 20/25 on the left with subjective diplopia reported during the examination as well as during testing for finger to nose agnosia. Diminishing speed and increased difficulty to complete testing