A 19-year-old female was referred to our clinic for evaluation of primary amenorrhea and suspicion of MRKH syndrome. Pelvic examination revealed the absence of a vagina, and abdominal ultrasound showed a small midline pelvic structure consistent with a rudimentary uterus with no endometrial stripe and ovaries that appeared normal. A review of the patient's medical records revealed a pelvic magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) report that described findings consistent with bilateral, normal appearing kidneys and no anatomical abnormalities. It is noteworthy that the MRI images were not available and there was no description of the appearance of the IVC in the report. The patient had a history of renal superior mesenteric vein and splenic vein thromboses in early infancy, with abdominal vascular calcifications. These calcifications were noted on abdominal X-ray and ultrasound during a work-up for gastrointestinal symptoms of difficulty with feeding and vomiting at 20 days of age. A review of medical records from this early infancy time period showed a pediatric cardiology consultation that confirmed a normal heart on echocardiogram. In addition, a thrombophilia work-up, including activated protein C resistance, antithrombin level, protein C and S levels, antiphospholipid antibodies, homocysteine serum concentration, and factor-V Leiden mutation, was negative. The patient had no further symptoms after the first month of life. She had no history of tobacco use or hormonal therapy.
The initial management for this patient was with vaginal dilators, which she attempted for one year. The patient was ultimately unable to create a functional vagina and refused to continue with the use of dilators. Surgical options were discussed, and the patient elected to undergo a modified Abbe-McIndoe technique. The procedure included the harvesting of a skin graft from the upper thigh, the creation of the vaginal recipient site, crafting of the neovagina over a silicone vaginal stent (Silimed vaginal stent, Silimed, Inc., Dallas, TX), and subsequent placement of the stent []. The procedure was uncomplicated, and