The patient is a 58-year-old non-smoking female with a history of recurrent papillary thyroid cancer first detected in the 1970s, who throughout her course underwent several surgical resections, repeated therapy with radioactive-iodine, and external beam radiation therapy (EBRT) (original history, cumulative radioiodine dose and EBRT dose unavailable). She presented again in 2015 with recurrent thyroid cancer as well as newly diagnosed breast cancer and liver metastases of unknown origin. She was hospitalized for unexplained fevers, failure to thrive, and symptomatic management of disease progression. Prior to this hospitalization, she had undergone an extensive infectious disease workup with an attempt to isolate the cause of her fevers up to 104 degrees Fahrenheit over the preceding three months. No clear etiology was identified. Empiric antibiotics were eventually discontinued, and the presumed diagnosis of tumor fever was made. On discharge, she followed up in the oncology clinic to start lenvatinib, a TKI approved for radioiodine-refractory thyroid cancer. Hours after her first dose of lenvatinib, she was taken to the hospital due to two witnessed generalized tonic-clonic seizures. At home she was noted to have shaking of her arms with repetitive movements of her head, lasting about three minutes and followed by post-ictal confusion, with no tongue biting or incontinence noted. She was taken to the emergency department where she had another witnessed seizure that resolved under therapy with lorazepam. The patient was then transferred from the emergency department to a different medical center. Although her presenting blood pressure was not available for review, her blood pressure was noted to be 158/99 mmHg immediately prior to her transfer.
The patient was admitted to the medical intensive care unit, and given persistent seizures, required intubation for airway protection. Physical exam was limited due to sedation. Brain MRI revealed multifocal white matter edema affecting the occipital and parietal lobes with patchy gadolinium enhancement, in a predominantly posterior distribution, but also with frontal lobe lesions with