An asymptomatic 59-year-old Caucasian man was referred to the clinic for routine dental evaluation. A radiologic examination revealed a unilocular radiolucent area at his anterior right maxilla with well-circumscribed sclerotic border (Figures 
 and
).
All his maxillary teeth with the exception of his left maxillary cuspid had been removed over the years, uneventfully; the most recent extractions were performed 7 years previously. There was no history of trauma to his maxilla or of any other surgery. He was a non-cigarette smoker, had no further illness and was otherwise healthy. On examination, the alveolus was of normal consistency with expansion or swelling; there was no pain or tenderness; there was no change in the color of the soft tissues around the lesion. There was no lymphadenopathy.
Based on the clinical and radiographic examinations, differential diagnosis should be performed with other radiolucent lesions such as residual, radicular or lateral periodontal cyst, odontogenic keratocyst, globulomaxillary cyst, traumatic bone cyst and ameloblastoma.
Residual cyst is the first pathology that should be considered depending on the similarity of radiologic appearance, clinical evaluation and location, unless the lesion is located around the tooth root region and the lesion is unilocular and asymptomatic as in the presented case.
On the one hand residual lateral periodontal cysts occur along remnants of the lateral root surface of a tooth and 80% occur in the mandibular premolar, canine, lateral incisor area. On the other hand, polycystic appearance may be seen radiologically.
A unilocular clinical appearance can also be seen with odontogenic keratocysts. The usual localization of keratocysts is the posterior mandible and ascending ramus and for large keratocysts their radiologic appearance can be multilocular. In addition, in up to 40% of odontogenic keratocysts an unerupted tooth is involved in the lesion.
Globulomaxillary cysts are one of the pathologic lesions seen in this region of the maxilla. On clinical