A 26-year-old Hispanic female presented for evaluation of nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain, and watery diarrhea of two-week duration. She reported fevers, generalized malaise, and weight loss. She had similar gastrointestinal complaints in the past without any visual loss, weight loss, claudication, or joint pains. Her history was significant for appendicitis in 2003 and a perineal abscess/fistula repair in 2000. She denied smoking, alcohol, or illicit drug use.
Physical examination revealed blood pressure of 126/73 mmHg in the right arm and 114/74 mmHg in the left arm. Her right radial pulse was not palpable and the left one was thready at 70 beats per minute. The femoral and dorsalis pedis pulses were difficult to appreciate bilaterally. An abdominal bruit was noted, as well as tenderness of the right lower quadrant. Musculoskeletal exam was normal except complaint of pain in both arms when raised above her head for more than 6 seconds. The shoulder exam was normal on both sides. Laboratory evaluation () was significant for anemia of chronic disease and elevated inflammatory markers. She underwent colonoscopy and the right colon biopsy showed benign colonic mucosa with cryptitis, ulceration, and mild-moderate architectural change, consistent with Crohn's disease. Due to her symptoms of shoulder/arm pain, unequal blood pressure, and pulses in both arms and an abdominal bruit, further imaging studies were pursued. A magnetic resonance angiogram of the chest and abdomen was done and showed severe irregularity and narrowing of the descending thoracic aorta which tapers down from 2 cm transversely at the level of the distal arch to 7.5 mm transversely at the narrowest point just beyond the aortic hiatus. The subclavian arteries were not visualized in their entirety bilaterally during the initial imaging. There was 50% narrowing of the origin of the celiac artery with poststenotic dilatation; renal arteries were normal (). At this point, the patient was diagnosed with Takayas