A 38-year old female was admitted to our clinic for routine investigation of non-specific abdominal disturbances. The patient reported intermittent episodes of diarrhea without warning signs like passage of pus or blood into the stool, lasting for a couple of months. No frank rectal bleeding was mentioned. She denied abdominal pain, weight loss, fatigue or fever. Her personal history is unremarkable. Regarding the personal habits, she was non-smoker and no alcohol abuse or illicit drug use was noted. Family history was negative for colonic malignancies as well as for gastrointestinal bleeding. The physical examination revealed a well-looking pacient, not pale and normal weighted (BMI 26 kg/m2).The abdominal examination was unpainful, with no palpable masses, with normal liver and spleen. Laboratory investigations, including cell blood count and routine biochemical tests were within normal limits. Although no hepatic involvement was suspected after clinical examination, other serological markers for identifying liver diseases were ordered. The patient had no evidence for hepatitis B or C, for drug-induced liver disease or other specific liver diseases as hemochromatosis, alpha1-antitrypsin deficiency, Wilson’s disease, autoimmune liver disorders. Taking into account the digestive symptoms, an investigation of lower gastrointestinal tract was imposed. Colonoscopy was performed and showed dilated submucosal veins throught the entire colon, a finding consistent with extensive colonic varices (). In order to clarify the etiology of colonic varix, supplementary investigations were undertaken. Abdominal ultrasound evidenced a normal appearance of the liver, spleen and pancreas, without other pathological findings; no signs of thrombosis of the portal axis were detected in Doppler examination. Abdominal Doppler sonography revealed normal portal flow volume and velocity; Acoustic radiation force impulse (ARFI) elastography showed that the mean value of liver measurements was 1.08 m/s (no liver fibrosis). Other blood analysis like clotting studies, autoantibody profile and imunoglobulins were in normal ranges. Upper digestive endoscopy did not reveal the presence of varices in the upper part