47-year-old male presented to the cardiology out-patient department (OPD) with shortness of breath and chest discomfort on exertion since one week. Chest discomfort was related to exertion and relieved by rest. He has hypertension and hypertriglyceridemia controlled well on oral Amlodipine and Fenofibrate since one year. He does not smoke, drink alcohol, or use any recreational drugs. The patient gives past history of cutaneous sarcoidosis which was diagnosed by biopsy of the lesion one year back. He was evaluated for systemic sarcoidosis and was found to have hilar lymph nodes by computed axial tomography of chest and was advised for a follow-up CT after 6 months. The follow-up CT scan showed improvement and the patient was asymptomatic. Corticosteroids were not started at that time as the patient was concerned about the side effects of steroids on longterm. Hence he was advised for regular follow up. Three months after this evaluation, he presented to our OPD with the present symptoms. Physical examination did not show cutaneous lesions, his pulse was regular at 62 beats per minute and the blood pressure was normal. Cardiovascular examination revealed normal S1 and S2 with no gallop, murmurs, or rub.
At the time of presentation his electrocardiography (ECG) revealed sinus rhythm with a rate of 62 per minute with prolonged PR interval and right bundle branch block (RBBB) (). Cardiac enzymes were normal. He has undergone echocardiography and treadmill exercise test for the evaluation of his chest discomfort. His echocardiography showed normal left and right ventricular function without any regional wall motion abnormalities. His stress test showed poor chronotropic response and rate dependent 2 : 1 atrioventricular (AV) block occurring during the exercise test (). Exercise was terminated at 3.5 METS due to severe fatigue and second degree AV block in ECG. The ECG reverted to sinus rhythm in the recovery phase. He was taken up for a coronary angiography next day which showed normal coronaries. He was discharged from the hospital after coronary angiography but he presented