A 52-year-old male patient was admitted with complaints of hoarseness and bloody sputum. The patient has 30 pack/years of smoking history. In thoracic computerized tomography (CT), a mass lesion with irregular contours was observed surrounding aortic arc and the left main bronchus in the mediastinum and causing a loss of calibration in the left pulmonary artery (). Fiberoptic bronchoscopy performed under conscious sedation with midazolam revealed mucosal infiltration at the orifice of the upper division of left upper lobe having a tendency for bleeding, almost fully obstructing the orifice. Also lingular segment was almost fully obstructed and constricted at an advanced level. Mucosal biopsies were obtained from these areas and the procedure was terminated by the control of minor bleeding. After approximately one hour, sudden massive hemoptysis developed (about 600 cc in 15 seconds). The patient was urgently taken to the operation room and was intubated by rigid bronchoscope. Fluid replacement, inotropic agents, fresh frozen plasma, and erythrocyte infusion were given. The lumen was observed to be covered with coagulum starting from the trachea inlet. After cleaning the coagulum, active hemorrhage was observed from the entrance of the left main bronchus. The sterile gauze impregnated with epinephrine (0.2%) was placed towards the distal part of the left main bronchus using rigid forceps to occlude the area which origin of the bleeding. In the meantime, cardiac massage was applied for 5 minutes due to cardiac arrest. After stabilization of the patient, the right bronchial tree was carefully cleaned from bleeding residues and bleeding control was ensured. Patient was intubated and transferred to the intensive care unit. The patient was connected to mechanical ventilator under mild sedation for 24 hours. The condition of the patient was stable and approximately 50 cc bleeding occurred through the orotracheal tube in 24 hours. The next day, rigid bronchoscopy both for removing the gauze and for ensuring long-term control over bleeding was done. The gauze at the distal part of the left main bronchus was