Our patient is 77 years old Caucasian female with coldness and pain in the right arm during minimal physical strain and some movement inability in the same arm. The symptoms began 1 year prior to hospitalization with worsening of the symptoms 2-3 weeks ago, with augmentation of the pain in the arm that limited her everyday's home based activities. The patient had undergone duplex-ultrasonography of the upper limbs, with high suspicion of occlusion of the right axillary artery. The patient did not have prior history of trauma of the upper limbs, but had prior history of mastectomy 16 years ago treated with concomitant radiotherapy as well. From risk factors she was a smoker with hypertension and diabetes. On physical finding there was difference in systolic blood pressure readings of 50 mmHg (80 mmHg in the right brachial artery and 130 mmHg in the left brachial artery). The right radial and ulnar arteries were hardly palpable. The patient did not have any cardiac symptoms, 2D echo showed EF of 65% without enlargement of the cardiac chambers or valvular disease. All relevant laboratory examinations were within normal range. Patient was loaded with 600 mg clopidogrel and was already on 100 mg of aspirin daily before intervention. She was also pre-hydrated with 0,9% normal saline 6 hours before intervention. Written, informed consent was obtained and the procedure has been approved by the IRB of University Clinic of Cardiology, Medical Faculty in Skopje under the Presidency of Prof. Lidija Dobrkovic and members Associate Prof. Marija Vavlukis and Katerina Dimovska RN.
Coronary and peripheral angiography were performed through the left radial artery before attempting angioplasty of the occluded right axillary artery in order to exclude significant and relevant concomitant coronary artery disease.
There was no significant coronary artery disease. Peripheral angiography with Simmons 2 5 F diagnostic catheter, (Supertorque plus, Cordis) revealed long segment of calcified CTO of the right axillary artery. We decided