A 47 year old African American male presented to the emergency department with intermittent, severe chest pain associated with palpitations and one episode of vomiting.. The pain started without any preceding event and persisted for approximately 30 seconds during both rest and exercise. The patient claimed to use street cocaine for the treatment of his pain. During the last few months the patient experienced a 40 pound weight loss. The patient had no history of cardiac symptoms and had a good exercise tolerance. Patient’s past medical history was significant for alkali (NaOH) ingestion during 1980 for which esophageal resection and a colonic pull-through was performed. Notable aspects of the patient’s history included a father with a brain tumor, 20 pack year history of smoking and a regular consumption of cocaine for chest pain.
On physical examination, the patient was alert, cooperative and in slight distress. His vitals were normal except for a blood pressure of 147/83. General examination showed a few slightly enlarged cervical lymph nodes bilaterally. Examination of the chest revealed a 4 × 4 cm midline mass which was extremely tender and inspection of abdomen showed an old surgical scar.
In the emergency room the patient received aspirin 325 mg, morphine 4 mg intravenously and famotidine 20 mg intravenously.
Baseline laboratory tests including complete blood count, metabolic and coagulation profiles were within normal limits. An unremarkable electrocardiogram (EKG) and three sets of negative troponins excluded a cardiac cause for patient’s chest pain. A Chest X Ray (CXR) revealed a widened mediastinum and a CT Chest was ordered which was eventually extended to include the abdomen and pelvis. This showed a large (11.4 × 8.3 × 12.1 cm) vascular mediastinal mass (Figure ).
This mass was in contiguity with the heart, stomach and aorta, exerting mass effect on the aorta and pulmonary vasculature (Figure ).
The CT scan also revealed multiple round enhancing liver lesions raising the