A 60-year-old male presented to an outside hospital after three days of painful and prolonged erection. The patient has a history of non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus, hypertension, hepatitis C, and hyperlipidemia; he also smokes 1.5 packs of tobacco per day. The outside urologist was only able to achieve partial detumescence with a phenylephrine injection, but the patient was discharged home from the emergency department. He presented the next day to our facility with continued painful erection and reported that the erection never completely resolved from the previous day. The patient was noted to have an elevated temperature (103°F) and a WBC count of 27,200/μL. We attempted phenylephrine and saline irrigation but observed only a temporary response. The patient received cefoxitin following the intracorporal phenylephrine injections, in anticipation of possibly undergoing a distal shunt procedure in the operating room. Because the patient presented with site-specific pain, fever, and an elevated WBC count, it was deemed that surgery was the best management option at that point to reduce the risk of sepsis. The patient underwent a modified Al-Ghorab shunt procedure. Postoperatively, the patient had an uncomplicated course and was discharged home with a 10-day course of cephalexin.
The patient presented to our clinic on postoperative day 21 and was noted to have thick eschar on the glans penis. At the time, the wound was deemed to heal appropriately. Approximately one month later, the patient was seen in clinic again with complete necrosis of the glans penis, as well as purulent discharge, but the patient was voiding without difficulty. Magnetic resonance imaging demonstrated a 14 cm abscess in both of the corpora cavernosa. The patient was taken urgently to the operating room for distal penectomy with irrigation of the corpora and drain placement; the urethra was largely preserved (). The patient's wound culture was positive for Staphylococcus aureus and he was treated with piperacillin + tazobactam and vancomycin