We report a case of a 59-year-old Caucasian female patient, never a smoker, with a remote history of Hodgkin's lymphoma from which she was cured. She has received a total nodal irradiation around 30 years prior to her lung cancer diagnosis. Unfortunately, she was diagnosed with stage IV lung adenocarcinoma metastatic to the pleura, bones, and the brain, where the pleural biopsy confirmed the diagnosis with EGFR exon 19 and exon 21 negative mutations and EML4-ALK gene rearrangement was also negative. Her initial scan of the chest showed innumerable soft tissue nodules of varying sizes and mediastinal adenopathy compatible with metastatic disease (). Her initial brain MRI showed numerous small enhancing lesions throughout the posterior fossa and cerebral hemispheres bilaterally consistent with extensive disease () along with cervical spine lesions.
She underwent pleuroscopy and talc pleurodesis for the malignant pleural effusion with approximately 2 liters of fluid removed and then palliative radiation therapy for spine lesions to 6th and 7th cervical vertebraes for her back pain, but her brain lesions were too small and she was asymptomatic. This was followed by systemic chemotherapy with carboplatin and pemetrexed for four cycles followed by maintenance pemetrexed. She also received zoledronic acid for her skeletal metastases. She remained on the pemetrexed maintenance for 14 cycles, which she tolerated very well, and had minimal response versus stable disease. Unfortunately, during her follow-up visits, she presented with bulge on her left eye. Simultaneously, her follow-up chest scan showed increase in the size of the lung nodules. She continued to have a reasonable performance status at that time, except for mild increase in her dyspnea, with normal oxygen saturation.
Ophthalmology consultation was obtained for her new left eye bulging and the plan was to initiate a second line of systemic therapy then. However, ophthalmologic exam revealed bilateral multiple cream-colored choroidal infiltrative tumors consistent with metastatic tumors (Figures and ). The