A 38-year-old man was admitted with a diagnosis of acute appendicitis via the Emergency Department. Preoperative assessment chest radiograph (Fig. ) was found to be abnormal and a computed radiograph (CT) of the thorax was performed (Figs. and ).
The patient had no respiratory symptoms prior to his current admission for acute appendicitis. He has no past medical history of note in particular that of childhood respiratory illnesses, tuberculosis, renal, or metabolic disorders. There is no significant family history of any medical illness except that his male sibling reportedly had an abnormal chest radiograph but refused investigation. He works as a full-time clerk and is married with two children. He does not keep any pets at home. He has no travel history. He smokes approximately 15 cigarettes daily for the last 20 years and does not drink alcohol.
He was comfortable at rest with no requirement for supplemental oxygen. His oxygen saturation remained above 97% on room air. There were no abnormal findings on physical examination, except for tenderness over the right iliac fossa.
Blood investigations were unremarkable except for an elevated white cell count with neutrophilic predominance in keeping with acute appendicitis. CT thorax however showed diffused interlobular and intralobular septal thickening, suggesting interstitial calcifications and innumerable tiny nodular opacities, predominantly at the lung bases. There was also bilateral subpleural emphysema seen in both upper lobes in keeping with a smoking history. The abdominal CT did not reveal any extrapulmonary calcification.
The patient underwent appendicectomy under general anesthesia without complications and had an uneventful recovery.
Bronchoscopy with transbronchial lung biopsy was subsequently performed. Histopathological examination of the biopsy specimens confirmed the diagnosis of PAM (Fig. ). Spirometry, lung volumes, and diffusion test were performed during his follow-up visit. The results of the pulmonary function tests are within acceptable limits except for a marginally reduced DLCO/VA (rate of carbon monoxide uptake) value (see