A 56-year-old male presented to the Department of Dermatology, the Second Affiliated Hospital of Xi’an Jiaotong University with a nodule on the left side of the nose, which had been progressively enlarging for one year. One year previously, a pimple approximately the size of a grain of rice had appeared in the patient’s left nasal cavity without evident inducement. The pimple caused no itching or pain, and the corresponding external skin on the nose exhibited no noticeable change, so the patient paid no attention to the pimple. Subsequently, the nodule gradually grew. Six months prior to the current presentation, the patient noticed that the nodule was locally red, swollen and erosive, and the patient felt mild nasal congestion and had difficulty breathing. The patient was diagnosed with chronic nasosinusitis at the Ear, Nose and Throat Department of a local hospital. Subsequent to receiving cephalosporin antibiotics as an anti-inflammatory treatment, the redness and swelling subsided, but the nodule remained. Afterwards, the nodule continued to enlarge progressively and grew internally and externally, accompanied by hyperemia and swelling of the corresponding skin outside the nose. Three months prior to the current presentation, upon agitation by the patient, the nodule ulcerated and oozed blood, with locally damaged skin, deteriorated nasal obstruction and a large amount of purulent nasal discharge. However, the patient did not experience itching and pain or systematic symptoms, such as fever and emaciation. The patient returned to the local hospital. This time, the patient was diagnosed with a nasal fungal infection and received oral itraconazole (200 mg, twice a day) for two weeks. Although the local swelling was somewhat alleviated and the bleeding stopped, the nodule did not significantly decrease in size. The subsequent external use of topical amphotericin B (twice a day, for one week) slightly mitigated the condition and the patient arrived at our hospital for a diagnostic examination. Since the onset