Our second case was a 72-year-old man with multiple comorbidities who initially presented to his primary care physician after his wife noticed an enlarging, painful left neck mass. His past medical history was significant for severe dementia requiring hospitalizations, bradycardia requiring a pacemaker, carotid artery disease, and hypertension. He was a non-smoker who drank alcohol occasionally. Imaging that included a CT scan identified an enlarging left cervical lymph node with central necrosis, measuring 3 cm. Fine needle aspiration (FNA) of the lymph node was positive for squamous cell carcinoma (HPV testing not performed). Flexible nasopharyngoscopy could not identify the primary site of disease. A follow-up PET scan again identified a 33 mm × 30 mm left level II lymph node, standardized uptake value (SUV) 12.5, and a 25 mm × 13 mm right level II lymph node, SUV 4.3. There were no other areas of FDG avidity. He was staged cT0N2cM0 (stage IVA) and was referred to radiation oncology to discuss treatment options. At the time of presentation, he was in an acute rehabilitation facility for progressive dementia and antibiotics for a recent bacteremia.
Given his severe dementia, it was concluded he would not tolerate standard head and neck treatment. Further workup, including directed biopsies and tonsillectomy, was also declined given his high perioperative risks. Therefore, he was treated with SBRT to 2500 cGy in five treatments given daily (500 cGy per treatment), with no concurrent systemic sensitizer. The treatment field included the enlarging left cervical lymph node encompassing levels II/III, which was limiting his head movements. During treatment, he had some response in the left neck with resolution of the palpable lymph node. He did not develop any notable toxicity from treatment, including dermatitis, mucositis, or esophagitis. The plan was to return and treat the right cervical lymph node as well, however, his dementia rapidly progressed following treatment and he soon entered hospice care