Our first case was an 82-year-old man with multiple medical comorbidities including severe dementia, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, and type II diabetes, who presented with an enlarging, exophytic mass extending from his lip. He was a former 50 pack year smoker with a long history of daily chewing tobacco use. The lesion presented 6 months prior and homeopathic remedies were attempted prior to presenting to the clinic. On exam, he had a fungating lesion over 40 mm in size involving the central lower lip, sparing the bilateral commissures. The mass extended from the buccal mucosa with no obvious bony involvement. A computed tomography (CT) scan and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the head and neck demonstrated a 37 mm exophytic mass, arising from the midline and left paramedian inner, lower lip with no underlying bony involvement. Biopsy of the mass was positive for ulcerated, invasive, well-differentiated squamous cell carcinoma. It was not tested for HPV. He was staged as T2N0M0 (stage III). He was initially evaluated for a surgical resection and reconstruction expected to last 12 h, but given the high perioperative risks involved, he was determined not to be a surgical candidate. He was therefore referred to radiation oncology for treatment.
Radiation treatment options were discussed, including intensity modulated radiation treatment (IMRT) given over 6–7 weeks covering his primary and draining lymphatics, versus localized SBRT in five treatments. The patient and his family opted to proceed with SBRT and he received 3000 cGy in five twice-weekly treatments (600 cGy per treatment), with concurrent cetuximab (a loading dose of 400 mg/m2 preceding SBRT followed by six weekly infusions of 250 mg/m2). The treatment field included the lower lip and buccal mucosa (Figure ). During treatment, he had noticeable clinical response (Figures A,B). He tolerated treatment well with the only adverse effects being grade 2 dermatitis at the treatment site and grade 1 fatigue