A 58-year-old chronic smoker, a nonalcoholic male was admitted to our hospital due to one-month history of progressive abdominal discomfort in the left upper quadrant associated with nausea, loss of weight, and loss of appetite especially after eating something. Specific cancer history was recorded in his pedigree (); his father died of hepatic cancer and his mother died from lung carcinoma as well as his history of hepatitis B. His grandfather and grandmother had no specific cancer history. A computed tomography scan of the abdomen revealed an irregularly thickened and rigid wall of gastric antrum which was able to be enhanced by enhanced computed tomography, and there was a mass in the left hepatic lobe, which was measured 5.0 × 4.4 cm and could be partially enhanced (). There was a deep concave ulcer (measured 2 × 2 cm) in gastric antrum near the pylorus and gastric antrum mucosa was thickening and rigid through gastroscope. Endoscopic biopsy from the stomach revealed differentiated tubular adenocarcinoma. Alpha-fetoprotein (AFP) level was 1.63 ng/mL, and carcinoembryonic antigen was 1.22 ng/mL. Radical gastrectomy for cancer as well as liver tumor resection was performed for the patient; the operation was very successful. During the operation, we can see that the tumor was in the anterior wall of the gastric antrum and lesser curvature, measured 5 × 4 × 3 cm in diameter, and visually had invasion into the liver, the stomach ligament, and the pancreatic capsule. There were multiple gastric lymph nodes grown surrounding the stomach, and there was a tumor in hepatic left lateral lobe. The mass was approximately 5 × 4 cm in diameter and it was tough, clear with the surrounding. The pathology demonstrates hepatocellular carcinoma; stomach poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma (signet ring cell carcinoma) as well as metastatic lymphadenopathy (Figures and ). The patient received chemotherapy a month after surgery, and Alpha-fetoprotein (AFP) level, carcinoembryonic antigen, and liver function are normal in the