MT, a 44 year old Caucasian male with a several year history of psychotic depression, was admitted to hospital for treatment on March 17, 2012. His medical history was significant for chronic headaches, degenerative disc disease in the cervical spine, remote knee arthroscopy, and spontaneous pneumothorax in 1996. None of these medical issues were felt to be contributing to his psychiatric presentation. MT was a smoker, but did not use other drugs or alcohol. Physical examination including screening neurological examination did not reveal any abnormalities. Up until recently, MT was living a fairly functional life. He was married with two children, previously worked in the military, and was working as a security guard until his hospitalisation. He did not appear to have any significant psychiatric difficulties earlier in his life.
MT’s mood was depressed and he met the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, Fourth Edition (DSM-IV) for a Major Depressive Episode. He had been depressed since early 2011 and felt it was largely related to the end of his marriage. MT reported that the auditory hallucinations began several months after the onset of depression, and at a time when he was particularly isolated and the depression quite severe. MT reported that he hadn’t had hallucinations prior to the onset of his depression.
MT’s psychotic symptoms manifested as a single male voice making derogatory comments about him, and telling him to hurt other people. He was also troubled by violent imagery in his mind. He never experienced any somatic delusions or coenesthetic hallucinations. He had previously been tried on risperidone, quetiapine, olanzapine, and haloperidol. During this stay, the patient was started on clozapine (March 20, 2012) and titrated up to 500 mg daily dose prior to discharge. This was the first time the patient had a trial of clozapine. Clozapine is not an approved treatment for psychotic depression, so the treatment was considered an off-label use of the medication. At the