A 20-year-old African American man was admitted to a psychiatric facility for psychosis. On initial presentation, the patient had an antalgic gait, which he attributed to his history of dopa-responsive dystonia. His mood was depressed and his affect was restricted. He had disorganized thought process and was slow to recall. He endorsed auditory hallucinations, paranoid delusions, depressive symptoms, frequent night awakenings, and persecutory nightmares. Per the ambulance report, the patient was wandering the streets in a confused state, so bystanders called 911. The patient stated that he had been homeless for the past 3 weeks. During this 3-week period, he admitted to not being complaint with his medications. Urine toxicology screen was negative.
Per medical records, he was diagnosed with dopa-responsive dystonia at age 11 after a 2.5-year history of progressive abnormal gait. He was initially misdiagnosed with tight heel cords at age 10 and treated with serial casting that resulted in good improvement on the right but marginal improvement on the left. His toe walking became more pronounced overtime accompanied by worsening left calf pain and stiffness, increasingly frequent falls, and new onset of intermittent torticollis. These symptoms worsened over the course of the day. He was eventually taken to an urban teaching hospital, where he was diagnosed with dopa-responsive dystonia based on clinical presentation and marked improvement on a levodopa trial. Magnetic resonance imaging of the brain and spine was unremarkable at the time.
At age 15, he was diagnosed with schizoaffective disorder bipolar type. His psychiatric history is also significant for multiple psychiatric hospitalizations, history of previous suicide attempts with medication overdose, and history of trauma. He also endorsed marijuana use since age 15 and daily tobacco use since age 18. He denies using any other illicit drugs. Per collateral information from his mother, his schizoaffective disorder has never been well controlled given the conflicting effects of his