This is a case of 43-year-old Egyptian female with a past medical history of ITP resistant to steroid therapy that ended with splenectomy and history of hepatitis C and diabetes mellitus who comes to the ED (emergency department) for bright red bleeding per rectum for four days prior to presentation.
Approximately five years ago, our patient was diagnosed with ITP. She was treated with steroids and IVIG (intravenous immunoglobulin) and has had multiple blood and platelet transfusions for resistant ITP and thrombocytopenia that was reaching the levels of 10 to 20 × 109/L. She was manifesting at that time by epistaxis and bleeding gums. She eventually had a splenectomy four years ago for refractory ITP. Our patient was diagnosed with hepatitis C which was presumed to be secondary to multiple blood transfusions. Since her splenectomy, platelet count was in the normal range till it started to drop again and oral steroid was resumed; then oral azathioprine was added. She developed steroid-induced hyperglycemia/diabetes mellitus.
Approximately 4 months ago, our patient had bright red blood per rectum and had an EGD (esophagogastroduodenoscopy) and colonoscopy which were unremarkable. Her platelet count was 12 × 109/L during that time. She was transfused with platelets and packed red blood cells in addition to resuming steroids. The capsule endoscopy was suggested by the treating physician but was not done as it was not available for the patient as she was staying in a rural area in Egypt and lost follow-up with the hospital for financial issues; then she travelled to USA.
Four days before the current admission, our patient had started having bright red bleeding per rectum which was 3-4 times a day. Bleeding was associated with colicky abdominal pain. No other orificial bleeding was appreciated. Her medications on last admission included tranexamic acid tablets, ethamsylate tablets, prednisone 20 mg tablets, and azathioprine 100 mg tablets. The patient has never smoked or had alcohol in the