A 57 y/o Caucasian male patient was referred to our hospital with pronounced motor aphasia and unilateral right sensorimotor performance deficits after having been found unconscious at home. In the ER the patient was awake and oriented to person, place and time. Due to the severe dynamic aphasia and agitation it was not possible to obtain a sufficient patient history. According to the patient’s relatives the onset of neurological symptoms was the evening before, however less pronounced and progressed to an unconscious state the next morning. Initially the patient and his family denied any history of chest pain, orthopnea, and lower extremities edema, however eventually the patient recalled an episode of chest pain and lightheadedness as angina pectoris equivalent two years before. Coronary angiography revealed a three vessel disease with a total occlusion of the first marginal branch of circumflex artery which apparently lead to transmural infarction and subsequent aneurysm formation. His past medical history was otherwise remarkable for essential hypertension and intermittent atrial fibrillation. On physical exam his pupils were equal round and reactive to light and accommodation. He manifested a unilateral faciobrachial weakness as well as a unilateral faciobrachial sensory loss. His cardiac risk factors were significant for tabacco abuse (50 pack years), essential hypertension, unhealthy diet and physical inactivity.
The electrocardiogram showed atrial fibrillation at 120 beats/min and pathologic Q-waves in leads I and aVL consistent with a non-recent lateral myocardial infarction. The tachycardic supraventricular arrhythmia was successfully converted with 300 mg of amiodarone. Cranial computed tomography was immediately initiated and revealed a large left frontotemporal and right parietal hypoattenuation consistent with cerebral infarction. The patient was started on high molecular weight heparin. Chest X-rays showed a massive cardiomegaly with a bulging protrusion along the left ventricular shadow (Figure ). Comparison to prior X-ray studies raised the suspicion of a giant ventricular aneurysm. There was associated pulmonary venous congestion due to heart failure.
The preoperative echocardiographic evaluation and magnetic resonance imaging confirmed the diagnosis of a