We present the case of a 36 year old G4P4 Hispanic female who presented to the ED for nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, 30 pound weight loss over 2–3 months, generalized body aches most pronounced in the lower back for 5 days, and a positive pregnancy test. Past medical history was significant for hypertension, dysphagia, 4 caesarean sections and bilateral tubal ligation. Family history was noncontributory. She denied tobacco, alcohol, or intravenous drug abuse. Physical exam revealed reproducible pain upon palpation of the spine. The bimanual exam was negative for discharge, cervical motion tenderness, or pelvic tenderness. A routine urine pregnancy test was positive and subsequent serum testing demonstrated a β-hCG level of 154 mIU/ml. The patient denied sexual intercourse in over 2 years and confirmed having a normal menstrual period less than 2 weeks prior. The patient was admitted to the hospital for further assessment and management. Initial abdominal and transvaginal ultrasound examination revealed no intrauterine pregnancy, non-visualization of the right ovary, and a complex cyst measuring 3.5 cm in diameter on the left ovary. Her repeat serum β-hCG 48 hours later was 155 mIU/ml demonstrating an insignificant change from the earlier reading. A Computed tomography (CT) scan with contrast of the thorax showed clear lungs and a cluster of enlarged lymph nodes in the celiac axis, with the largest being 1 cm. The patient was consented for laparoscopic evaluation, bilateral salpingectomy, possible left ovarian cystectomy, peritoneal washings and dilatation and curettage. At time of surgery, pelvic washings were collected and they were negative for malignant cells. Review of the pelvis revealed normal anatomy. The cyst on the left ovary was removed and sent for frozen section pathology that revealed a hemorrhagic corpus luteal cyst. The uterine curretings were also sent for frozen section pathology that showed late secretory endometrium and no chorionic villi. The patient had a normal postoperative course and was discharged from the hospital on the first postoperative day.
U