A 46-year-old Chinese male with a history of hypertension presented with sudden syncope and came to his senses after ten minutes without headache. His respiratory rate was 21 breaths per min and the lungs were clear on auscultation. Cardiac examination revealed a grade II/6 diastolic murmur at the parasternal border. The pulse rate was 75 beats per min with normal sinus rhythm. The blood pressure was 109/76 mmHg in the left arm and 112/62 mmHg in the right arm. No remarkable abnormal was found in abdominal examination. Coagulation tests were normal. Arterial gas analysis on 3 L/min oxygen inspiration was pH 7.39, PaCO2 39.8 mmHg, PaO2 62.5 mmHg, SaO2 91.1%. A chest x-ray revealed widening of the mediastinum, a cardiothoracic ratio of 60%, and normal lung fields. Echocardiography revealed ascending aortic dissection and moderate aortic regurgitation with small to moderate pericardial effusion. Computed tomography scanning revealed ascending aortic to aortic arch dissecting aneurysm, in which the proximal part of right brachiocephalic trunk was also influenced. The left and right pulmonary arteries were normally enhanced with contrast medium. The patient underwent emergency operation for the thoracic aortic dissection, including Bentall procedure, interposition graft replacement of aortic arch, stented descending aorta with a shunt from a chamber around the aortic root to the right atrium. The patient was successfully weaned off bypass and transferred to the intensive care unit. The ratio of PaO2 to FiO2 after operation was 300. The haemodynamics was stable. However, the ratio of PaO2 to FiO2 fell to 150 gradually after operation. Two days after operation, the patient was conscious and cooperative, and his lung compliance and airway resistance were normal. But severe hypoxaemia ensued. In order to find out the cause of hypoxaemia, a chest computer temography was carried out but no evidence of atelectasis or pneumonia was shown. Pulmanary arteriography showed that an entire