A fifteen-year-old female adolescent was admitted to the child and adolescent acute psychiatric unit of our hospital for the first time after remaining isolated in her home for four months. She had initiated treatment in the outpatient clinic of her district in June 2013, attending only one visit and refusing all psychiatric treatment thereafter.
There was a family history of schizophrenia in second degree relative on her mother's side. The patient's medical history, according to her family, included recurrent acute bronchitis until 10 years of age. No history of alcohol or tobacco consumption or psychoactive substance use was reported. The patient was very selective and restrictive in her meals since her childhood. She only ate biscuits, ham croquettes, bread, and omelettes.
Regarding school, she described acceptable performance until the previous academic year when she presented some difficulties, and her teachers decided to change her to another classroom with a lower academic level.
Her premorbid personality was described as quiet and shy, with some difficulty in social relationships, but with a group of friends at the beginning of the episode. She lived with her parents and an 18-year-old sister in a mid-size city (with a population of about 216,000 inhabitants).
The patient reported that during the previous academic year she had been separated from her friends due to the change of classroom and at the same time she had begun to suffer digestive cramps and headaches, and as a result she stopped going to school. She stayed at home, with no interest in leaving the house, playing computer games and surfing the internet all day from April 2013 until her admission in our department 6 months later. The family explained that she had also become withdrawn from them, showing little interest in conversation, giving only monosyllabic answers, and gesturing in response to her parents' questions. She showed neglect in her personal hygiene and apathy regarding her physical appearance.
At the time of her admission, the mental