A 27-year-old Caucasian woman was admitted to the Emergency Department of our Institution because of bloody diarrhoea – up to 10 bowel movements per day – during the last month, 3 weeks after quitting smoking. Physical examination showed no abnormalities but confirmed haematochezia on digital rectal examination. Colonoscopy showed continuous severe colonic inflammation with small ulcers from the anus to the descendent colon, classified as grade 3 in Mayo endoscopic sub-score and 3 points in Ulcerative Colitis Endoscopic Index of Severity (UCEIS); complete examination was not performed because of the risk of perforation. Empirical antibiotic treatment with ciprofloxacin and metronidazole, as well as oral and rectal mesalamine were started and partial symptomatic improvement was achieved. Venous thrombosis prophylaxis with subcutaneous enoxaparin, 40 mg per day, was started. At admittance, haemoglobin, white cell count, platelets, fibrinogen and C reactive protein (CRP) were within the reference range. Stool cultures were negative. Cytomegalovirus (CMV) infection was also ruled out in colonic biopsies (polymerase chain reaction – PCR – and, later, immunohistochemistry). As bloody diarrhoea persisted 48 h later, and histopathological examination of colonic biopsies showed crypt distortion, a mixed inflammatory infiltrate of the lamina propria and crypt abscesses suggesting the diagnosis of UC, intravenous methylprednisolone (1 mg per kg of weight, daily) was started. After 3 days of corticosteroids the patient achieved partial clinical response (6 bowel movements per day, Edinburgh index 2 points, CRP within the normal range); nevertheless, 2 weeks later infliximab therapy (5 mg/kg of weight) was started due to sustained clinical activity, with 10 bloody bowel movements per day and a progressive increase of CRP levels, up to 10 mg/dL. Three days after the first dose of infliximab, the patient presented a massive lower bleeding with haemodynamic instability and severe anaemia; CT scan showed active arterial haemorrhage from ascendant colon; a subsequent arteriography demonstrated active arterial bleeding from a