A 78-year-old male patient reported with a complaint of swelling on left side of the face () and difficulty in mouth opening since 4 months with associated paresthesia of the same region for the past 2 months.
He revealed productive cough and exertional dyspnoea for the past 4 years and was under steroid inhalers. Patient had habit of smoking 5-6 chuttas per day for the past 50 years. Clinical examination revealed diffuse swelling over left body and angle of the mandible. Skin over the swelling was smooth with no surface changes. On palpation it was firm in consistency and slightly tender. There was also a palpable lymph node in the left sub mandibular region which was 2 × 1.5 cm in size, hard in consistency, nontender, and not freely movable. Intraoral examination revealed decreased mouth opening with inter incisal distance of 24 mm, restricted jaw movements, and grade 2 mobility in relation to 36, 37, and 38. Considering history and clinical picture provisional diagnosis of malignant neoplasm involving left body and angle of mandible was considered. Differential diagnosis of metastatic jaw tumor, osteosarcoma, and chondrosarcoma was given. Panoramic and PA skull radiographs revealed radiolucency with irregular borders at the left body and ramus of the mandible till the condylar head ().
TMJ tomography showed osseous destruction involving left condyle. Radiographically differential diagnosis of gorhams disease and metastatic jaw tumor were considered. Considering history of persistent cough chest radiograph was taken which revealed homogeneous opacity involving the entire mid- and lower zones of the left lung ().
The patient was referred to radiologist for CT chest and mandible. CT chest revealed 12 × 7 × 6 cm mixed dense lesion in left lung with bronchial stenosis and distal collapse (). Axial sectional study of CT mandible revealed osteolytic areas involving the left body extending from 46 region of mandible encroaching the entire ramus till the condylar head with adjacent soft tissue mass ().
As metastatic work up abdominal ultrasound scan