A 35-year-old female presented with an asymmetric, voluminous tumor on the right side of her abdomen, which had gradually grown during the past one year. The patient had three children and had no family history of neoplasia. She was not addicted to tobacco and alcohol. She had a history of surgical excision of a solid tumor of size about 3 cm × 5 cm, located in the right hypochondrium. The surgery was done two years back. She had biopsy report of spindle cell neoplasm, but no slides or blocks were available for review at our institute. The surgery was not followed by radiotherapy or chemotherapy.
Physical examination on admission revealed a tumor of size around 20 cm × 20 cm in the right side of abdomen, extending to the opposite side beyond the umbilicus (). The tumor was fixed to the overlying skin and the underlying muscle. The skin appeared reddish with vascular engorgement, but there was no ulceration. It was not accompanied with any regional lymphadenopathy.
Computed tomography (CT scan) depicted a large lobulated heterogeneously contrast enhancing soft tissue mass on the right side of anterior abdominal wall, extending from the lower chest wall downwards up to right side of pelvis, inseparable from right rectus, external oblique, and internal oblique muscles (). There was no evidence of metastases to distant organs on imaging. Fine needle aspiration cytology of the lesion showed plump spindle cells in clusters and small groups, suggesting recurrent spindle cell neoplasm.
She was subjected to surgery which consisted of a wide resection of the tumor along with the surrounding muscular layer and peritoneum. The resection exceeded the macroscopic limits of the tumor by 4 to 5 cm in order to accomplish a tumor-free margin. The defect was reconstructed with omentum and prolene mesh. The skin defect was covered with rotational skin flaps and split skin grafting (Figures and ).
The resected tumor, measuring 19 × 19 × 5 cm, was yellowish white in colour without central necrosis and hemorrhage