This patient is a 54-year-old Cuban man with past medical history of emphysema, 105 pack-year smoking history, and family medical history of lung cancer who presented to Jackson Memorial Hospital with recurrent MGCT. The primary lesion first appeared on his right upper back in October 2011 and was excised in Cuba, and by April of 2012, the mass recurred at the original site with multiple satellite lesions in right axilla as well as right axillary lymphadenopathy (). The Pathology Department (Dr. A.R.) reviewed the biopsy performed on the recurrent primary mass located on the right upper back in October 2012 at a local hospital and reported a diagnosis of malignant granular cell tumor, grade 2/3. The tumor was composed of aggregates and sheets of intermediate size spindle and polyhedral cells that had granular eosinophilic cytoplasm. The nuclei were vesicular and contained nucleoli; mitoses were numerous with 5 mitoses per high-power field; and scattered foci of necrosis were present (). Immunohistochemistry was positive for S100 and CD68 and negative for keratin, EMA, CD34, MART1, and synaptophysin (). The proliferation rate assessed by the KI-67 stain was 25% (). CT of the chest with contrast performed on January 16, 2013, not only confirmed the recurrence of the primary tumor, involving surrounding skin and muscle, with an additional large mass in the right axilla and axillary lymphadenopathy, but also demonstrated multiple pulmonary nodules concerning for metastatic foci. CT of the abdomen and pelvis with contrast showed ill-defined hypodense intramuscular lesion in the anterior compartment of the right upper thigh, and a subsequent CT-guided biopsy of the lesion confirmed it to be metastatic malignant granular cell tumor.
In February 2013, the patient was admitted back to the hospital as the mass on his back was extremely painful and was oozing serosanguinous fluid. Subsequently, he underwent a palliative resection of the recurrent primary tumor and satellite lesions on the upper right back as