A 72-year old woman experienced numbness below her left eye. She was examined with a CT scan of the paranasal sinuses revealing a tumor in the left maxillary sinus. Subsequently, exploratory surgery was carried out with tissue sampling of the mucosa in the floor of the sinus. The tumor was histologically classified as an adenoid cystic carcinoma. Immunohistochemical staining was positive for coloring with CD117 (C-kit). This supports the classification as an adenoid cystic carcinoma. Special coloring with Alcian also showed positive and strong coloring in the stroma between the cell layers. This further supports the diagnosis adenoid cystic carcinoma. The tumor did not show perineural invasion. A microscopical image of the tumor is presented in Figure . The patient was treated with radiation therapy intended to cure.
Her medical history included hypercholesterolemia, macular degeneration, psoriasis and a long history of Sjögren’s syndrome. Because of dry mouth and severe caries due to Sjögren’s syndrome, the patient had had all her teeth removed and she had tooth implants in her lower jaw and dentures in her upper jaw. She had smoked 10 cigarettes a day for 45 years.
Prior to the onset of her present disease, she had worked as an auxiliary nurse at a local hospital for 31 years. For 11 years, in the period 1967–1988, she had been working exclusively in the operating theatre at the general surgical ward. Her work tasks during this period had involved the handling of biopsies and she put the tissue samples in containers filled with formaldehyde. Containers of various sizes were employed: most surgeries involved preserving smaller tissue samples, but some surgeries involved preservation of larger organs, e.g. whole breasts. She had handled tissue samples several times per day throughout the 11 year period. Larger tissue samples were handled approximately a couple of times a week. After use, our patient disposed of the formaldehyde by pouring it into the sink in the operating theatre. Her work tasks