A 34-year-old Caucasian man with a 25-year history of CD was admitted to hospital for evaluation of a newly discovered liver mass. His past medical history was significant for an ileocolic resection when he was 14 years old and a proctocolectomy with end ileostomy when he was 22 years old for severe colonic disease resistant to medical therapy. At the age of 28, he developed peristomal pyoderma gangrenosum and seronegative polyarthritis for which therapy with azathioprine 1.5 mg/kg daily and infliximab 5 mg/kg every 6 weeks was initiated. For the previous 6 years, these doses remained the same and controlled his symptoms. He was otherwise well and took no additional medications. Born and raised in Canada, he worked as a structural engineer and was married without any children. He denied any smoking or alcohol or illicit drug use and had no family history of inflammatory bowel disease, liver disease, or malignancy. He had regular visits at his general practitioner and gastroenterologist. His last abdominal ultrasound was performed three years prior to presentation and was entirely normal. More recently, three months prior to presentation, he had routine blood work including liver enzymes as well as a gastroscopy and ileoscopy that were entirely normal. Unfortunately, over the ensuing months he developed progressive epigastric pain, nausea, fatigue, and 20 kg weight loss. Blood work revealed marked elevations in his transaminases and an abdominal ultrasound revealed a large liver mass. The patient was referred to our tertiary care academic institution to confirm the diagnosis and assist with management.
On presentation to hospital, the patient appeared well without any evidence of jaundice or stigmata of chronic liver disease. His liver enzymes and alpha-fetoprotein level were markedly elevated, while his liver function was normal ().
An abdominal CT scan revealed a 24-centimeter mass in his left hepatic lobe with tumor thrombosis involving the left portal vein and nodular masses in the right lobe (). A CT of the chest and pelvis did not