An 83-year-old African American male patient presented with chronic cough for many years. He reported mild progressive dyspnea on exertion improving with rest. He denied hemoptysis or sputum production. He has been a resident of an assisted living facility for the past 17 years. He smoked 1/2 pack per day for 14 years and quit 40 years ago. He worked in the construction business, mainly demolishing buildings for more than 20 years, which led to significant exposure to construction dust and asbestos. He did not wear a mask as the use of protective gear was not mandatory at the time. The rest of the exposure history was negative for tuberculosis, pets, recent travel, or sick contacts. His past medical history was significant for right middle lobe and right lower lobe pneumonia 3 years ago successfully treated with antibiotics.
A chest X-ray showed bilateral calcified pleural plaques and the presence of right middle lobe band like atelectasis. This prompted further workup with computed tomography (CT) of the chest showing calcified aorta, coronaries, mediastinal lymph nodes, calcified right upper lobe nodule suggestive of old granulomatous disease, right middle lobe ovoid opacity 3 × 2 cm, right upper lobe anterior segment bronchocele and stricture, right lower lobe and left lower lobe mild fibrosis (Figures and ). The above changes were stable for 3 years except for the new right middle lobe opacity. A positron emission tomography (PET) scan failed to demonstrate metabolic activity within the lesion. Pulmonary function tests showed forced expiratory volume for 1 second to slow vital capacity (FEV1/SVC) ratio of 69 (normal range 63–84), normal FEV1 and forced vital capacity (FVC), normal lung volumes, and moderate reduction in diffusing capacity for carbon monoxide (DLCO). His echocardiography showed normal right ventricular size and function with no tricuspid valve regurgitation.
Bronchoscopy was performed to further assess the new right middle lobe opacity and showed several pigmented lesions involving the main carina, right