An 85-year-old Caucasian female presented to the emergency room (ER) with a three-day history of right lower quadrant and periumbilical abdominal pain. Her primary care physician had prescribed oral levofloxacin 750 mg once daily for seven days, for a presumptive diagnosis of diverticulitis. Since antibiotic did not seem to bring about a change in her clinical status, the patient decided to seek help at the ER. She was known to have diverticulosis, several past episodes of left sided diverticulitis, hypertension, hyperlipidemia, hypothyroidism, esophageal reflux, a hiatal hernia, and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). Surgery for the recurrent diverticulitis was not done because of the old age of the patient who preferred to use antibiotics and be on follow-up. On chart review, there was a mention of supraventricular tachycardia but the patient had no recall of its nature and records were not available. She had had a cholecystectomy in 1991 and prior colonoscopies which had revealed extensive diverticulosis throughout her descending and sigmoid colon. Her medication list included omeprazole, levothyroxine, and vitamin D. Of note is the fact that she was not on medications for hypertension, hyperlipidemia, and COPD. She had no known allergies. She had 50 pack-year smoking history but quit 10 years ago. Family history was notable for coronary artery disease in her father who died of an acute myocardial infarction.
On exam, her vital signs were found to be normal. The only significant finding was periumbilical and right lower quadrant abdominal tenderness, without rebound, guarding, or rigidity of the abdomen. Initial testing showed mild leukocytosis with all other laboratories including hemoglobin, platelet count, renal, and kidney chemistries being within the reference ranges. Lipid panel was as follows: total cholesterol 212 mg/dL, triglycerides 167 mg/dL, LDL cholesterol 151 mg/dL, and HDL cholesterol 43 mg/dL. Patient was on diet modification for hyperlipidemia and refused any medications for that. An obstructive series ruled