This 36-year-old Indian male presented to Sawai Man Singh Hospital Emergency Room with the chief complaint of hemoptysis, having coughed up approximately 500 mL of bright red blood in the previous 12 hours. The patient was an active smoker, with a smoking habit of 45 pack-year. The patient had history of pulmonary tuberculosis 5 years back for which he had taken complete treatment. During these 5 years, the patient had few episodes of hemoptysis amongst which 2 were major episodes, for which he was admitted to the hospital and bronchial artery embolization was done for 2 times, the first one 2 years back and the second one 6 months back from this admission. On presentation, the patient had hypoxemia, tachycardia, and low blood pressure. The patient had pallor and anemia. He was admitted to the intensive care unit for close monitoring and treatment. The patient received blood transfusions because of a rapid fall in hemoglobin levels (the patient had a hemoglobin level of 12.5% on admission, which had dropped to 9.6% in a single day) and severe hemodynamic instability. Chest X-ray showed multiple cavitary lesions of left upper lobe, with fibrosis of mediastinum causing deviation of trachea to left side and tenting of left lobe of diaphragm (). The CT scan of patient showed multiple cavitary lesions in left lung predominantly in upper lobe, with hemorrhagic debris in the cavities. Bronchiectatic changes were also noted in right lung but to a milder level of affection (). He underwent emergency bronchoscopy to identify the site of bleeding. The bronchoscopy revealed that he bled massively from the left tracheobronchial tree. Since a definite lateralization of the bleeding source had been established, a right sided double lumen endotracheal tube was inserted to protect the right lung. The patient was nursed in the intensive care unit. Bronchial lavage cytology was negative for malignancy. The very next day the patient again bled profusely from the left lung, and at this point surgical