A 79-year-old Korean woman was referred to our hospital for an incidentally detected subepithelial lesion in the stomach. Her medical history and alcohol intake, smoking history, and recent drug use were unremarkable. A physical examination did not reveal significant abnormalities. The routine laboratory tests conducted at the time of referral to our hospital were within the normal ranges.Abdominal computed tomography (CT) showed a well-defined, intramural, heterogeneous mass lesion in the gastric body. The mass was oval-shaped and exhibited an enhanced pattern after contrast medium injection. In addition, no enlarged lymph nodes or distant metastasis in other organs around the stomach were observed (Figure ).In an endoscopic examination of the upper gastrointestinal tract, we observed that the greater curvature of the upper body was covered with relatively normal mucosa. Additionally, a subepithelial lesion approximately 2.5cm in length was observed bulging into the lumen (Figure ). Using endoscopic ultrasonography (EUS), we observed a round mass of approximately 18mm×12mm in size that originated from the submucosal layer. Within this mass, focal lesions with anechoic foci that appeared to comprise the cystic portion were observed, along with an inhomogeneous pattern (Figures A and B). On the basis of these combined examination results, the possibility that the lesion was a tumor of mesenchymal origin with malignant potential was explained to the patient and a decision for surgical treatment was made. With the patient under general anesthesia, a laparoscopic wedge resection of the gastric subepithelial lesion was performed. A macroscopic examination revealed a mixed cystic and solid submucosal mass (45mm×22mm×15mm) filled with mucinous material (Figure ).
Microscopically, broad interdigitating bundles of smooth muscle were present between the ductal collections. Some of the ducts were dilated and lined with tall columnar epithelium featuring regular, basally oriented nuclei. Also some of them were surrounded by branched glands lined with mucus-secreting cells (Figure ). According to cytologic immunophen