A 48-year-old male patient was admitted to the hospital for hematemesis and melena. His past medical history included chronic alcohol abuse, intense smoking habit, chronic antral gastritis due to Helicobacter pylori that had not been eradicated, and longstanding epigastric pain treated with proton pump inhibitors.
The patient was lucid, but anemic, with a fine radial pulse of 120 beats per minute and a blood pressure of 60/40 mm Hg. The abdominal examination showed no elements suggesting peritoneal irritation.
On initial presentation, his hemoglobin level was 7.0 g/dL so the patient management began with the transfusion of two packed red cells and intravenous fluids and posteriorly a gastroscopy was performed revealing a posterior bulbar ulcer of 15 mm, with blood oozing. Hemostasis was achieved using 1/10,000 adrenaline. But the ulcer continued bleeding and, after assuring it was not safe to repeat the sclerosis, we decided to perform an urgent duodenotomy, suture of the penetrated ulcer in the posterior wall and Graham patch. Due to placement of the ulcer and the inflammation of the tissues around, the gastroduodenal artery was not ligated. The patient developed well and was discharged 6 days after. But he presented again to our hospital two days after with a history of persistent epigastric pain associated. He was afebrile and hemodynamically stable; moreover, physical examination revealed a palpable beating mass in the epigastrium.
The contrast-enhanced CT scan documented the presence of a large (8.3 × 7.5 cm) pseudoaneurysm of the gastroduodenal artery supplied by the superior mesenteric artery.
Selective arterial embolization through a femoral approach was successfully performed to treat the pseudoaneurysm. We decided to occlude the gastroduodenal artery first to stop the backflow into the pseudoaneurysm and it was embolized with two 3 mm × 4 cm coils. Subsequently, the inferior pancreaticoduodenal artery was embolized with two 3 mm × 5 cm coils through the superior mesenteric artery.