In 2010, a 26-year-old Moroccan man was referred to our oncology and radiotherapy center for management of recurrent tumor of his right subscapularis. No pathological medical or surgical history was reported and no alcohol or tobacco habits. One year before, he had presented to his surgeon with a subscapularis tumor which had appeared gradually and increased in size during 6 months without associated pain or other symptoms. A physical examination reported a mass size 10cm, palpated in his right subscapularis region. A first resection was realized. Histopathological analysis demonstrated spindle-shaped cells with no identifiable nuclear pleomorphism or mitotic activity. There was no necrosis. A benign tumor with spindle-shaped cells is suspected. On immunohistochemical analysis, the cells stained positive for anti-smooth muscle actin, favoring a smooth muscle origin. The diagnostic of AF was retained. Unfortunately, the mass recurred within a period of 10 months and continued to increase in size reaching 13cm on a computed tomography scan and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI; Figure ) without regional structures involved (bone, muscle or vascular). A second tumor and lymph nodes resection were performed by another surgeon who reported “a very hard resection without cleavage plane”. Histological analysis regarding two fragments size 4×3cm and 14×10×8cm led to a conclusion of AF tumor; hormonal receptor was not found. The resections of margins were narrowed and lymph node resections regarding four nodes were not involved. At assessment in our oncology and radiotherapy center after this second resection, his World Health Organization performance status was zero, weight 84kg, height 177cm. There was no induration or palpable mass. A MRI performed after the repeat surgery was normal. During follow up, a recurrence was suspected 1 year after the second resection. An axillary MRI (Figure A and B) was performed and a large mass was found in the last tumor site, measuring 12.6cm involving deltoid muscles and extending to axillary area. A third resection