A 17-year-old Caucasian female presented to the emergency department with the complaint of left forearm pain. She initially noted paresthesia of the left hand and then left forearm pain. The pain had been progressive over the previous 10 hours and was exacerbated with flexion or extension of the wrist. She could not recall any injury or inciting event. She was otherwise healthy and without any significant past medical history. Her family history was unremarkable with the exception of her mother’s brother who died of Duchenne muscular dystrophy. Her mother had been tested for Duchenne carrier status and was negative. Her only medication was an oral contraceptive. She denied the use of tobacco, alcohol, and illicit drugs. Her initial vital signs were an oral temperature of 36.8°C, pulse of 76 beats per minute, blood pressure of 144/96 mm Hg, respiratory rate of 16 breaths per minute, and room air pulse oximetry of 100%. The physical examination of the left forearm revealed it to be firm and tender to palpation, and it measured 2cm larger in circumference than the right. Her radial pulse was palpable and her fingertip capillary refill was less than two seconds. The skin appeared normal without overlying erythema or calor. The patient experienced pain with flexion or extension of the digits and wrist. No sensory deficits of the hand or forearm were noted. Her initial laboratory evaluation showed the following: leukocytosis of 15,300 10(3)/mcL, blood glucose of 93mg/dl, elevated creatine phosphokinase of 15, 750U/L, normal erythrocyte sedimentation rate, and slightly elevated c-reactive protein at 1.27mg/L. No coagulation studies were obtained. A radiograph of the forearm was obtained and demonstrated only soft tissue swelling. Venous and arterial duplex studies of the extremity were performed. The arterial duplex demonstrated no evidence of arterial thrombosis, stenosis, or occlusion. The venous studied showed normal flow and compressibility, but the waveforms were continuous. Compartment