A 49 year old male developed since 2 months dyspnea with dry cough and thoracic pain. He had smoked 1 pack/day cigarettes for 18 years and has been ex-smoker for 9 years. In November 2004, he was admitted with almost complete atelectasis of the left lung at the chest X-ray. Chest computed tomography (CT) was performed that showed soft tissue mass surrounding the trachea extending from the left pulmonary hilum through the left main bronchus to the carina. This tumor was in close contact with the descending aorta. Contrast-enhanced CT scans demonstrated no paratracheal adenopathy or pulmonary parenchymal disease (). The patient underwent a bronchoscopy that showed mural irregularities extending from 15 mm above the carina into the left mainstem bronchus. The circumferential submucosal masses protruded and obstructed the lumen of the proximal left main-stem bronchus. Bronchoscopic biopsies of the mural lesions showed ACC infiltrating respiratory mucosa. Extended tracheal resection was considered, and neoadjuvant chemotherapy was delivered in order to achieve tumor reduction and allow eventual surgical excision. Scanner control performed after 4 cycles of vinorelbine -CDDP showed an unchanged aspect of the tumor.
A multidisciplinary team of medical, surgical and radiation oncologists made a decision to treat the patient with definitive radiotherapy. The patient received 66 Gray (Gy) of radiotherapy to the primary tumor volume in 33 fractions; 5 fractions per week with exclusion of the spinal cord at 46 Gy. Bronchoscopies performed 6 and 12 months after therapy showed a disappearance of the tumor mass of the left bronchus wich became permeable. The patient was lost sight of for 4 years. In july 2010, he was readmitted with a history of severe respiratory insufficiency at rest. Bronchoscopy revealed an obstructive and hemorrhagic tumor of the left mainstem bronchus invaded the carina, and the right main bronchus, wich prevented us to biopsy. Chest CT showed an extensive tumour regrowth in the mediastinum, with atelectasis of the left