A 14-year-old male presented to the emergency department with complaint of left lower extremity pain for 5 days. The pain was localized to the left thigh, worsening over time despite analgesic intake. Patient also complained of swelling of the thigh, difficulty in ambulation for 2 days, and numbness for 1 day. There was no history of trauma, recent surgery, medication use, or prolonged immobilization. There was no family history of clotting or bleeding disorder or venous thromboembolism. He denies any history of smoking or illicit drug use.
Patient is a known case of type 1 diabetes mellitus diagnosed at age of 10 years, currently on insulin pump. He was diagnosed with hypertension at age 9 and is on enalapril. He was born in Jamaica, via normal spontaneous vaginal delivery at term and had shoulder dystocia at birth for which he stayed in the hospital for 10 days. A sling was applied and no other intervention was done. Patient's mother denied any other complications at birth.
On examination he was noted to have marked asymmetry between the two lower extremities. There was tense swelling of the left posterior thigh and the left calf, which was tender to palpation. No erythema, warmth, varicose veins, or ulcers were present. Peripheral pulses were palpable and equal bilaterally with normal neurological exam.
His initial laboratory results in the emergency room showed normal complete blood count, basic metabolic panel, prothrombin time, and activated partial thromboplastin time. A lower extremity ultrasound showed the left common femoral, left superficial femoral, and left popliteal vein were noncompressible and demonstrated no vascular flow, with intraluminal echogenic thrombus suggestive of deep vein thrombosis of the left lower extremity ().
He was admitted to the pediatric floor and started on low molecular weight (LMW) heparin and warfarin after hematology consultation. His chest X-ray was normal. A thrombophilia workup was done which showed no prothrombin gene mutation, normal levels of Factor V Leiden, antithrombin III, and protein S. Protein C was