A 59 year old Caucasian male was transferred to our unit from a regional hospital with a two week history of macroscopic haematuria. He sought medical attention only after he developed clot retention. He denied any previous history of haematuria or urinary problems prior to the two week period immediately before his hospital admission.
His medical history was unremarkable other than extensive carcinogen exposure, with both a 40 pack-year smoking history and significant occupational exposure, working as a fly-in, fly-out diesel fitter on a mine site.
On admission he required placement of an indwelling urinary catheter and continuous bladder irrigations. His initial serum creatinine was elevated, but soon normalised following catherisation. He was transferred to our secondary referral centre following failure of conservative therapies to control his persistent haematuria.
On his arrival to our facility we arranged Computerised Tomography (CT) to assess his bladder and upper renal tracts. CT demonstrated a grossly thick walled bladder with a large enhancing intra-vesical mass, and bilateral hydroureteronephrosis (
). His haematuria continued and he became transfusion dependant. He was taken to the operating theatre two days after his arrival for cystoscopic assessment.
At cystoscopy, there was a large papillary tumour involving the prostatic urethra, the trigone, and both lateral walls of the bladder. (
) Neither ureteric orifice was identifiable. The tumour was macroscopically resected after an extensive procedure.
Histologically the tumour was classified as a low grade urothelial carcinoma with no evidence of superficial or muscle invasion. We found this finding inconsistent with the operative and radiologic findings and repeated a cystoscopy four weeks later.
At repeat cystoscopy large volume tumour regrowth had occurred and a further 90 minute resection was performed. Tumour histology this time demonstrated invasion into the muscularis propia by a large nested variant of UC (
) with an adjacent superficial component of low grade papillary UC (
).
A staging Positron E