A 65-year-old female patient developed chronic renal failure with unknown etiology and began hemodialysis in 2003. The patient denied past tobacco use or analgesic abuse. The patient received a renal transplantation in 2005 from a male cadaveric donor. Immunosuppressive therapy was applied using a triple immunosuppressive regimen, including cyclosporine (CsA), prednisone, and mycophenolate mofetil.The patient suffered from a pulmonary cytomegalovirus infection 8 months after the renal transplantation, and took oral cyclosporine and prednisone for a combination immunosuppressive treatment after the transplant. She had normal renal function, and the serum creatinine levels were maintained at 0.62 to 0.88 mg/dL. Forty-eight months after the renal transplantation, the patient went to the local hospital because of recurrent gross hematuria with waist pain on the left side. The CT examination revealed a left pelvic lesion of approximately 5 cm × 4 cm (Figure ). It was showed in the CT image that, irregular nodular soft tissue shadow filled in the left pelvis; the adjacent calyces and renal parenchyma were compressed; and there was no obvious swollen lymph gland shadow. Preoperative cystoscopy and chest computed tomography (CT) examinations revealed no abnormalities.A pathological examination showed that the size of the full-cut kidney and the surrounding fat capsule was 15 cm × 10 cm × 5 cm, and the actual kidney size was 12 cm × 7 cm × 4 cm. A bulging mass of 6 cm × 4 cm was observed at the renal pelvic cut surface without an envelope. This mass showed infiltrative growth that was gray and of fine quality, partly translucent and jelly-like, and also showed some hemorrhagic and necrotic areas. The renal parenchyma was atrophied and the ureteral length was 8 cm. Microscopic observations revealed two tumor components. One was a high-grade urothelial carcinoma component with partial papillary arrangement, and the epithelial cells were mostly heterotypic and pleomorphic, with some of them falling off. The cell nucleus was obviously pleomorphic, deeply stained, and the nucleolus was prominent