A sixty-year-old male patient was taken to the National Cancer Institute (NCI) with a diagnostic of poorly differentiated squamous tongue carcinoma, with a four-month evolution period, which had lateralized intraoral pain on the left mandibular edge. The patient has personal smoking records of 100 packets per year and he is a heavy alcohol drinker.
A clinical examination observed an endophytic growth on the tongue reaching the left jaw and the base of the tongue (). Mouth opening was normal. The lesion was classified as T4 N2 M0 and imaging studies were carried out. The neck computerized tomography (CT) confirmed the existence of a lesion of the neoplastic aspect on the floor of the mouth without microscopic evidence of marrow infiltration. The chest CT did not have pathological findings. In maxillofacial CT, as observed in , a heterogeneous mass can be seen that spreads to the back of the tongue with extension to the floor of the mouth without reaching the sublingual space.
An oncological resection with jaw resection, bilateral modified radial lymphatic cervical dissection, and mandibular reconstruction with a fibula free flap was carried out. The surgical piece was sent to histopathologic study where the presence of a poorly differentiated squamous carcinoma with marked pleomorphism, cellular atypia, irregular nuclei, and atypical mitosis was reported. Even though the carcinoma cells did not show a fusiform pattern, the carcinoma was much undifferentiated and, with the clinical characteristics of the tumor and the patient's records, this led us to undertake immunohistochemical studies under the suspicion of an unusual variety of oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC). The results revealed that the same type of neoplastic cells was positive for cytokeratin AE1/AE3 (Cell Marque laboratory, USA, ready to use), vimentin (Cell Marque laboratory, USA, 1 : 200 dilution), and EMA (Novocastra laboratory, UK, ready to use) and negative for desmin (Cell Marque laboratory, USA, ready to use), S-100 (Cell Marque laboratory