A forty-three-year-old female patient was taken to the NCI with a clinical picture of an ulcerated lesion on the lingual left lateral edge with seven months of evolution that reaches the floor of the mouth. The chest CT did not have pathological findings. The neck CT confirmed the existence of a nodule on the floor of the mouth, whose etiology should be determined by its histopathologic study; also some submental and left jugular lymphs were observed. And incisional biopsy whose histopathological study showed an infiltrating, nonkeratinized moderately differentiated OSCC was carried out. The patient had personal smoking records (7 cigarettes per day) and did not have a history of long-term alcohol abuse.
Once at the NCI, there was a clinical exploration in which an endophytic tumor on the left lateral lingual edge spread to tongue, retromolar base, and trigone. The lesion was classified as T4a N1 M0.
A total glossectomy was carried out through mandibular swing and bilateral modified radial lymphatic cervical dissection. A second biopsy was taken from the tumor and microscopical exam revealed a carcinoma with two neoplastic cellular components, on one hand a proliferation of atypical spindle cells and on the other hand nests of squamous epithelial cells with hyperchromatic nuclei, prominent nucleoli, and atypical mitosis. The studies with IHC revealed that vimentin was strongly positive in the component of spindle cell as in epithelial cells. Cytokeratin AE1/AE3 was strongly positive in epithelial cells and focally positive in spindle cells. EMA antigen was positive for epithelial neoplastic cells and a weak expression in the spindle component was observed. Both neoplasia components were negative for desmin, S-100, and smooth muscle actin alpha (). Based on the previous results, a SC was diagnosed. A treatment with postoperative radiotherapy and chemotherapy was indicated. After two months of the surgical procedure, the patient is in good general condition without evidence of metastasis.