A 60-year-old male with past medical history of hypertension, coronary artery disease, chronic atrial fibrillation, and stroke (in 2011) presented to the hospital with complaints of slurred speech, dizziness, and gait imbalance in October 2014. He denied any other complaints. His blood pressure on admission was 180/102 mm Hg and heart rate was 77/minute. Physical examination was significant for left facial droop and irregularly irregular heart sounds. The rest of the physical examination was normal. Electrocardiogram showed atrial fibrillation with ventricular rate of 80 beats per minute. A noncontrast CT scan of the brain showed new lacunar infarct in right corona radiata and old right frontal lobe infarct. Subsequent MRI of the brain showed acute infarcts in right insular cortex, subinsular region, and right corona radiata along with an old right frontal lobe infarct. His laboratory tests were within normal limits. The patient was continued on dabigatran 150 mg twice daily, which he was taking at home. His other home medications included aspirin 81 mg, metoprolol succinate 100 mg, diltiazem sustained release 120 mg, and atorvastatin 40 mg daily. The patient had a regular follow-up with his cardiologist and was complianing with all his medications. He had a transesophageal echocardiogram done in August 2011, which did not reveal any smoke or clot in left atrium or left atrial appendage. He subsequently underwent electrical cardioversion for atrial fibrillation at that time but reverted back to atrial fibrillation shortly thereafter. He has been on dabigatran since then.
A transesophageal echocardiogram was done on this admission to evaluate a likely embolic source of acute stroke. Surprisingly, it revealed significant smoke and a mobile thrombus in the left atrium measuring about 0.6 cm × 0.3 cm (, Video 1 (see Video 1 in Supplementary Material available online at )). The left atrial appendage was free of thrombus. The patient was switched to warfarin anticoagulation for presumed dabigatran