A 44-year-old male with the past medical history of essential hypertension and tuberculosis presented to the emergency room (ER) with the complaints of high grade fever, fatigue, and shortness of breath. According to patient, he developed high grade fever 1 week ago that was accompanied by myalgias, frontal headache, and generalized weakness. Fever was followed by shortness of breath and exercise intolerance which started 3 days ago and worsened with time. History was positive for mild paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea and orthopnea though he denied any chest pain, palpitations, cough, or syncope. He also had frequent light headedness and got 1 episode of coffee ground emesis after which he was brought to ER. There was no history of blood in stools or urine. The patient denied any history of diabetes, ischemic heart disease, or hyperlipidemia. The patient was only taking HCTZ for hypertension and did not have any allergies. He was an active smoker with a history of one pack of cigarettes daily but denied use of alcohol or illicit drugs. The family history was positive for myocardial infarction in father at the age of 77. The patient did have a history of recent sick contact with one of his brothers who had dengue fever 3 weeks ago.
Review of patient's past medical records indicated that patient had dengue fever 1 year ago for which he was admitted on the floor but fever got resolved on its own with no complications. At that time patient developed vague chest discomfort for which EKG was done which showed widespread T wave inversions. Cardiac enzymes were mildly elevated and echocardiography showed normal wall thickness and ejection fraction of 58%. Taking into account above findings, a tentative diagnosis of mild dengue myocarditis was made. CXR was normal and patient was discharged. Endomyocardial biopsy and cardiac MRI were not done as the patient had mild myocarditis with normal myocardial functions. Follow-up CXR, Echo, and EKGs were normal and patient remained healthy other than having