A 23 year-old female was referred to our private clinic with a chief complaint of hypersensitivity, fear of tooth loss and gingival recession in the mandibular anterior tooth. She was in good general health and non smoker. Intraoral examination showed a good oral hygiene status with a full-moth plaque score equal to 17% []. A deep class II Miller recession with the lack of attached gingiva, and narrow band of keratinized tissue was observed (Figure ). Probing depths (PD) and clinical attachment level (CAL) measurements and registrations of marginal gingival recession (MGR) were obtained using a periodontal probe (UNC 15, Hu-Friedy Mfg. Inc, Chicago, IL, USA). The measurements were rounded up to the nearest millimeter. Tooth mobility was assessed and graded 0-2 and tooth hypersensitivity calculated via visual analysis scale (VAS). Measurements were done by an examiner with more than 10 years of clinical experience. Bone mapping revealed that it was complete lack of buccal bone plate over involved tooth. The suggested treatment plan comprised root coverage combined with xenograft bone particles. Initial therapies, including supra-gingival plaque removal, polishing, occlusal adjustment, and oral hygiene instruction with proper tooth brushing method were performed. Surgical procedures were performed by one of the authors who was not involved with clinical measurements. The clinical measurements were done by other experienced and calibrated investigators who were not informed about the surgical method. In case of controversy in the measurements by the examiners, they were asked to repeat the evaluation to reach a consensus. Another experienced and blinded operator was responsible for the radiographic examination. Written informed consent was obtained from the patient for publication of this case report and any accompanying images. A copy of the written consent is available for review by the Editor-in-Chief of this journal.
The design of CPF was similar to that described previously by Langer and Langer []. After local anesthesia of