A 65-year old Hispanic male presented with complaints of chest pain and heaviness prior to the diagnosis of his disease. The patient had a history of tobacco use but had stopped smoking 20 years earlier. The patient had been otherwise healthy all of his life. Approximately 4 to 6 weeks prior to his diagnosis, he experienced an episode of chest pain and some mild shortness of breath. Initially, the patient underwent a routine chest X-ray and CT scan diagnostic procedures. Subsequently, a thorascopic biopsy was performed, and using H & E staining, tissue histology was carried out to detect the tumor development. In addition, the patient underwent a mediastinoscopy, thoracoscopy, and fine-needle biopsy to confirm the diagnosis of his disease.
The diagnostic evaluation revealed the presence of a stage IV malignant thymoma with multiple metastatic lesions involving the left peripheral lung and pericardium. Despite the presence of metastatic disease, these lesions are still oftentimes known to be amenable to surgical resection following treatment with induction chemotherapy. Therefore, to down- stage the tumor and to improve the patient’s chance of increased surgical resectability, neoadjuvant chemotherapy was initially employed. Since platinum with an anthracycline-based triplet or quartet regimen is currently the consensus treatment for malignant thymoma [-], this was chosen as the neoadjuvant chemotherapy in this patient. More specifically, the patient was initially administered five cycles of quartet regimen consisting of cisplatin, adriamycin, vincristine, and cytoxan. Subsequently, the patient received four cycles of cisplatin, adriamycin, and cytoxan followed by surgical resection of his residual disease. Despite the treatment with neoadjuvant chemotherapy and subsequent surgical resection the patient experienced recurrent chest disease within a year.
In attempt to salvage this patient, the patient underwent a course of post-operative and post-chemotherapy IMRT/IGRT-based three-dimensional radiation therapy to a dose of 7,440 cGy to the left chest wall, mediastinum, and left pericardium (Figure ). The patient was