A 63-year-old man was admitted at the emergency department of a general hospital after experiencing painless hematuria which was his only symptom; he had a history of smoking and hypertension. Laboratory tests showed results within normal limits: creatinine levels were 0.9 mg/dL and he had a glomerular filtration rate (GFR) greater than 60 mL/min. Urological ultrasonography revealed a 4 cm tumor on the right posterolateral wall of the bladder which appeared to be invasive.
Computed tomography (CT) of the abdominal and pelvic area showed a mass in the urinary bladder corresponding to stage 3 (cT3b) with apparent infiltration into the fat but without lymph node involvement. Cystoscopy and transurethral resection (TUR) of the tumor was carried out but residual tumor remained. Pathological examination confirmed a urothelial carcinoma with evidence of invasion into the muscular layer.
The patient did not receive neoadjuvant chemotherapy but surgical treatment was planned which consisted of radical cystectomy and Bricker-Wallace reconstruction. Histological examination of the resected specimen described a grade 3 urothelial carcinoma with infiltrations into the adjacent fat tissue. Twenty-two tumor-free lymph nodes were also removed, and the tumor was staged as a pT3bN0. The tumor margins as well as the urethers were microscopically negative and there was no in situ carcinoma. After surgery creatinine blood levels were 1.2 mg/mL and the GFR was higher than 60 mL/min.
The patient remained disease-free for 18 months until a single, newly-formed 1.6 cm lung nodule was discovered which was not accessible for biopsy using standard techniques. No mediastinal lymphadenopathies were found and there was no evidence of disease in any other location. At this point, the patient underwent resection of the mass and the histo-pathological examination revealed a 1.2 cm metastatic lesion from a urothelial carcinoma with tumor-free edges. No chemotherapy was administered after surgery.
Twelve months later, the patient developed multiple retroperitoneal and iliac lymph