A 51-year-old Caucasian male with no significant past medical history presented to the emergency room with a one-week history of right sided acute neck and arm pain associated with progressive swelling in the right upper extremity. He did not have such complaints in the past and had never seen a physician. He was smoking for 30 years (1 pack per year) but quit 5 years ago. His family history was significant only for coronary artery disease. Doppler ultrasound of the right upper extremity showed an occlusive thrombus in the right internal jugular vein; a nonocclusive thrombus in the right subclavian vein with minimal flow is within this vessel. The remaining veins including the axillary and brachial veins are patent. Hypercoagulable status work-up was unrevealing and meanwhile the patient was started on enoxaparin subcutaneously with a 1 mg/kg dose every 12 hours. Computed tomography (CT) scan of the chest and the neck with contrast showed a singular anterior mediastinal mass with persistent thrombosis of the right internal jugular, subclavian and innominate veins (Figures and ). There was questionable extension of the clot into the right sigmoid sinus (). CT brain and CT abdomen and pelvis were normal. Right video assisted thoracoscopic surgery was done and a biopsy of the anterior mediastinal mass was obtained with no complications. Biopsy showed mediastinal large B-cell lymphoma with sclerosis (Figures , , , and ). Bone marrow biopsy was obtained and excluded the involvement of bone marrow. Cytogenetics study for lymphoma staging showed an apparently normal 46, XY male complement. No apparent numerical or structural abnormalities were evident. Flow cytometry study showed that the bone marrow was not involved by B-cell lymphoma morphologically and immunophenotypically. Patient started chemotherapy sessions and was continued on enoxaparin subcutaneously. The PET scan was done, showing two large hypermetabolic nodal masses of the mediastinum representing the lymphoma. One component of the lower mass extends into the anterior mediastinum. The patient started chemotherapy with R-CHOP-regimen.