Our case is a sixty-seven-year-old male known to be heavy smoker, hypertensive, poorly controlled diabetic on oral hypoglycemic agents and have long standing ischemic heart disease and history of lymphoma. The patient presented complaining of intense lower back pain, numbness, and severe weakness in both legs. Physical examination revealed severe and almost symmetrical paraplegia with areflexia. However, he had no clear sensory level deficit and no point tenderness on the thoracic or lumbar spine. The lower extremities had intact, but weak, dorsalis pedis pulses bilaterally. The patient also had no signs of upper extremity motor or sensory deficit. He was otherwise awake, alert, and oriented to person, place, time, and situation.
An urgent magnetic resonance imaging without contrast of the thoracic and lumbar spine showed a widely patent spinal canal with no cord compression or intrinsic abnormality of the cauda equina.
Nerve conduction study done twice revealed prolonged distal latencies and decreased conduction velocity of both lower limbs with prolonged F-wave latency and bilaterally absent H-reflex suggestive of demyelination and axonal damage. A lumbar puncture was performed and the CSF study showed elevated protein 764 mg/dL with normal cells and glucose. The working diagnosis initially was acute demyelinating polyneuropathy and a course of IVIG was started. The patient did not improve and continued to complain of severe low back pain; therefore, we decided to look for possible malignancy especially with the available history of lymphoma. Tumor markers, CT chest, pelvis, and lumbosacral spines were done. CT chest was suggestive of lymphangitis carcinomatosis and B2-microglobulin was significantly elevated (5.2 mg/L). A computed tomographic arteriogram of the abdomen, pelvis, and lower extremities was about to be performed, but the patient developed typical chest pain with ECG changes and elevated cardiac troponin. An urgent coronary angiogram was performed through a radial puncture and two coronary stents were placed. Within 2 days after discharge from CCU, we noticed discoloration of the right big toe.