A 55-year-old man of Indian ethnicity, presented to the outpatient department of general surgery with lower abdominal distension for the past one and a half months and a continuous dull aching lower abdominal pain for past 15 days. Patient was a chronic smoker and gave no history of trauma, anorexia, weight loss, altered bowel habits, vomiting, fever, or any urinary symptoms such as hematuria. On examination, patient was moderately built, and abdominal fullness was apparent on inspection, more so in the left lower abdomen. A vague mass of approximate size of 20 × 15 cm was palpable, extending from left iliac and left hypogastrium to umbilical region, crossing the midline and reaching up to right midclavicular line at the level of iliac crest. The lump had a smooth surface, ill-defined margins and lower margin could not be reached on palpation. The lump was nontender with firm, cystic consistency, and restricted mobility in all the directions. There was no inguinal lymphadenopathy and digital rectal examination was unremarkable. Patient was further investigated for differential diagnoses of mesenteric cyst, pancreatic pseudocyst, duplication cyst, or cystic metastasis. Ultrasound abdomen showed a large cystic lesion with multiple septae, left to the urinary bladder in the pelvis. Liver, spleen, pancreas, and bilateral kidneys were within normal limits. A contrast enhanced computed tomography (CECT) scan of abdomen and pelvis showed a large 14.4 × 14.6 × 9.2 cm multilocular cystic mass with enhancing septations and lobulation, occupying the left side of abdominal cavity extending downwards into the pelvis and displacing the gut loops and the urinary bladder to the right side. Mass was encasing the left iliac artery and there were no enlarged lymph nodes in paraaortic and pelvic region. The attenuation coefficient of the mass was in the +10 to 15 HU range. There were no ascites and no evidence of small or large bowel obstruction ().
A fine needle aspiration cytology of the mass showed RBCs