We report a 57-year-old male with history of extensive prior tobacco use, nonischemic cardiomyopathy, and an Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) performance status (PS) of 3. After successfully completing his initial evaluation, he was deemed cancer-free and eligible for cardiac transplantation. Due to severe heart failure despite standard medications, he received mechanical cardiac support with an LVAD. Three months after surgery for the LVAD, he was noted to have mediastinal widening on a chest X-ray performed for dyspnea and cough. CT scans showed mediastinal lymphadenopathy without evidence of disease outside the chest (Figures and ). Renal and liver functions were within normal limits. The patient underwent mediastinoscopy and the pathologic examination was consistent with SCLC. Due to headaches and distended neck veins, he was evaluated for superior vena cava syndrome. The patient was removed from active consideration for cardiac transplantation. After extensive discussion with patient and his family, chemotherapy was administered while hospitalized for close monitoring. He received carboplatin (area under the curve (AUC) 5) on day 1 and intravenous (IV) etoposide 100 mg/m2 on days 1–3. Patient received IV dolasetron 100 mg for 30 minutes on days 1–3 and IV prochlorperazine 10 mg every 6 hours as needed. The patient did not receive any prophylactic antibiotics. Carboplatin was used instead of cisplatin due to concerns over aggressive hydration and inducing volume overload. The radiation oncologist had an extensive discussion with the patient and the multidisciplinary team including the LVAD manufacturer and provided the information about the risks, benefits, and complications of concurrent radiation treatments. The patient ultimately decided not to pursue any radiation treatment.
The treatment course was complicated by cellulitis, neutropenic fevers with pseudomonas aeruginosa infection, and protracted nausea and vomiting. The patient was treated with prolonged IV antibiotics course including aztreonam and ciprofloxacin. The patient received oral dolasetron 100 mg on day 4 and subcutaneous pegfilgrastim 6