A 65-year old man with neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1) underwent a chest X-ray following a three-week history of cough productive of white sputum. He was otherwise asymptomatic but had a 30-pack-year smoking history. The radiograph revealed a solitary coin lesion of the right lower lobe. The patient underwent a CT scan which demonstrated a 3.3 cm right lower lobe lesion, separate to the pleura and suspicious for primary lung carcinoma (). A CT guided biopsy of the mass was obtained and histological examination demonstrated a deposit of large nucleolated epithelioid cells with pigment, positive for S100 and Melan A (). The patient was discussed at a multidisciplinary meeting and a provisional diagnosis of metastatic melanoma was made.
Physical examination to establish the primary lesion was complicated by the presence of numerous neurofibromas and hyperpigmented café au lait spots, and the search ultimately proved unsuccessful. A PET/CT demonstrated a focal nodule in the right lung and several other masses with poor radiotracer uptake consistent with neurofibromas. Crucially the scan did not elicit a primary melanoma. The patient's ECOG performance status was 0 and therefore VATS metastasectomy with clear histological margins was performed. The tissue was stained for the BRAF V600 mutation but was negative and thus, the prescription of Vemurafenib was not deemed beneficial. Because the risk of systemic relapse was extremely high, the patient was followed with active surveillance.
The patient had undergone two surgical resections of large superficial plexiform neurofibromas 20 years ago. After the PET scan had proved negative, the possibility that these operations had removed the primary melanoma was considered. While attending the plastic surgery department 2 months after his VATS procedure for removal of an elbow neurofibroma, a pigmented lesion of the patient's skin, buried within his beard, was noted (). Histologic analysis following excision demonstrated a superficial spreading malignant melanoma. It was Clark's level 4 tumour with a Breslow thickness of 1.6