A 42-year-old man presented to the surgical assessment unit with a five-day history of abdominal distention and vomiting and a two-month history of colicky and intermittent abdominal pain in the periumbilical region. He had no specific exacerbating factors for the pain, and he found some degree of relief by taking paracetamol and antispasmodics. He had been experiencing a profound decrease in appetite and had lost over 7 kilograms of weight over the previous few months. No other significant constitutional symptoms of fever or night sweats were positive in the history.
The patient had a significant past medical history of tuberculous monoarthritis of the left knee which was diagnosed 9 years prior to presentation. He was commenced on antituberculous therapy (ATT), which he prematurely stopped after four months of treatment without seeking medical advice due to abdominal discomfort. The patient also had a past history of acid peptic disease which was complicated by duodenal perforation for which he had a laparotomy over 18 years prior to the presentation. The patient required a blood transfusion but otherwise had a good postoperative recovery from the operation. When questioned further about this, he and his family were unable to provide further information. The social history confirmed that he was a smoker with a 20-pack year history of smoking. There was no history of alcohol use, and the patient was a taxi driver by profession.
On clinical examination, he had a cachectic appearance and was apyrexial and haemodynamically stable. On palpation of the abdomen, there was a mass in the umbilical region measuring 5 × 6 cm that was firm, nontender, and immobile and had indistinct margins. There was evidence of ascites. Bowel sounds were present and normal. No lymphadenopathy was found on physical examination and digital rectal examination was essentially unremarkable.
Blood investigations initially found microcytic hypochromic anaemia (haemoglobin of 10.4 with MCV of 72). Leukocyte count was 8