A 62-year-old female presented for continuous diffuse abdominal pain, predominantly located in the left abdominal quadrant, associated with nausea and loss of appetite, without frank weight loss or changes in bowel habit; symptoms started about one month earlier and became progressively worse. The past medical history was significant for mild arterial hypertension controlled with medication and coronary artery disease. Her family history was unremarkable for any medical conditions, and the patient denied alcohol consumption, cigarette smoking or illicit drug use. The clinical examination showed an ill-appearing patient with discrete pallor, normal weighted (BMI = 20 kg/m2). The abdominal examination revealed a slight epigastric sensitivity in the left upper abdominal quadrant, without palpable masses. The laboratory findings (cell blood count, biochemistry, and coagulation profile) were within normal ranges. An abdominal ultrasound was performed but pancreas visualization was not concluding, due to artefaction. An intravenous enhanced abdominal CT scan revealed a well-defined lesion, 35 mm diameter, arising from the tail of the pancreas, hypodense, without contrast enhancement ().
Serum tumor markers, CA19-9 and CEA, were normal. The patient was referred to surgery, where a distal pancreatectomy with spleen preservation was performed (), since the abdominal exploration showed no local invasion or distant metastases.
After closing the main pancreatic duct with separate sutures, a running suture was used to close the residual transected pancreatic parenchyma. In order to check for pancreatic leakage, the amylase level in the abdominal drain was measured starting with the second postoperative day, and it showed a decreased value. The patient had an uneventful postoperative course, with a marked improvement of her general state at follow-up visits (3 and 6 month after the procedure). Moreover, a Doppler ultrasound of the spleen was performed to confirm a proper vascularization during follow-up. The histopathologic finding was consistent with a benign serous cystadenoma, with frequent dilated pancreatic ducts, some of them with cystic appearance, lined by cuboidal epithelial cells (,).