A 32-year-old Sistani-Persian White man presented to a hematologist for the recent appearance of petechial lesions and epistaxis. He mentioned a history of ITP 13 years prior to his visit which had not responded well to standard corticosteroid therapy, was managed with splenectomy after 3 months of resistance to steroids and had remitted since that time until the recent reappearance of symptoms. He also reported having had pharyngitis 2 weeks before his current symptoms onset that had not been improved by amoxicillin-clavulanate administration. He also reported a history of recent meningococcal vaccination and stated that his symptoms had started within 24 hours after meningococcal vaccination. The laboratory results showed a platelet level of 25,000 per microliter. With a diagnosis of relapsing ITP, he was started on standard prednisolone regimen for 1 month which did not improve his condition. After 2 months he was seen by another hematologist for further evaluation and persistence of thrombocytopenia. A bone marrow biopsy was performed which confirmed the diagnosis of ITP (Figure ). He also underwent a scan for accessory spleen which was negative. Following this visit, he was given 40mg/day of pulsed dexamethasone for 4 days every 2 weeks for 8 weeks in addition to pulsed rituximab (800U/week) for 4 cycles neither of which was sufficiently effective to reduce his symptoms. Detailed information regarding his medication history following this visit is presented in Table .
Twenty months after relapse of ITP, when our patient was taking sirolimus, he presented to our hematology clinic again with sudden onset of new symptoms including hypersomnia, abnormal behavioral changes, clumsiness, and compulsive hyperphagia. His wife reported that her husband slept approximately 20 hours a day during his symptomatic period, did not wake up spontaneously except for voiding and could not be awakened upon calling on him. She also recounted that her husband had drunk coffee the night before his onset of symptoms. Computed tomography (CT)