My patient was a 19-year-old man diagnosed in early childhood with ADHD and ASD. He was referred by his local doctor for ongoing treatment as an adult. He had experienced long-term difficulties in establishing and maintaining lasting relationships and reading social cues. His conversations were awkward and restricted to a narrow range of subjects and he was frequently impulsive and insensitive during these interactions. These impairments had contributed to his increasing social isolation and conflict within the family environment. He had a low threshold of irritation and intolerance of noise, light and crowds. There was also a long history of outbursts of anger, physical intimidation and frequent destruction to property at home. He was also disorganized, forgetful and had difficulty completing tasks. He has always been overactive, restless and impulsive. There was no history of pervasive mood disturbance.
There were early concerns about a potential developmental delay and he was referred for a pediatric assessment at age two years. He received speech therapy prior to school and also repeated his pre-school year. Although he was of average intellect, his significant and specific learning, behavioral and communication difficulties warranted a placement in a special education unit to manage his needs. He experienced difficulties in both reading and writing and he performed below all national standards of literacy and numeracy. Reading remained effortful and unrewarding, with difficulties focusing on and reading along a line of text. At the age of seven he had an occupational therapy assessment, which reported difficulties with coordination, fine motor control, planning and sequencing. In the classroom he was reported to be distracted and restless, presented with extreme outbursts of anger and frequently ran away. He had poor interpersonal skills, established few friendships, had odd idiosyncratic language and repetitive hand flapping, and had a history of being bullied.
He commenced stimulant medication during early childhood and had trials of immediate-release dexamphetamine and methylphenidate with improvement in classroom