In May 2014, a 48-year-old male, working as bus driver, underwent occupational evaluation. He was asymptomatic for chest pain and dyspnea and declared smoking habits and no history of other cardiovascular risk factors. He was HIV positive. He referred to a previous access for a twenty-minute-long chest pain episode at emergency department two months before; nevertheless he was discharged after six hours on the basis of a normal ECG () and negative serum cardiac markers, with indication for ambulatory exercise stress test and invitation to stop smoking. Yet in the subsequent period he felt well and decided to hold over any other examination.
During the occupational evaluation the routine ECG showed sinus rhythm, 60 bpm, and normal R-wave progression in peripheral and precordial leads, with biphasic T wave in V2-V3 and deeply inverted T wave in V4-V5; negative T wave was also present in aVL (). Therefore he was advised with early cardiological assessment. These findings were suggestive of Wellens ECG pattern [], strongly associated with critical stenosis of proximal left anterior descending artery, meaning a very large amount of myocardial tissue at risk of necrosis and subsequent sudden death.
In this case a rest echocardiography showed no regional contractility anomaly without evidence of valvular and pericardial disease. Thus the patient was admitted to cardiovascular department with indication for coronary angiography. The exam revealed critical stenosis of proximal left anterior descending (LAD) artery, first and second diagonal branch, and subcritical stenosis of intermediate branch (); at same time ventriculography confirmed normal ventricular contractility (). He underwent successful percutaneous coronary angioplasty with placement of multiple drug eluting stent at critical lesions levels and discharged safely two days after with indication of best drug therapy, strong advice in smoke cessation, and regular cardiovascular follow-up.
Wellens' syndrome is characterized by previous history of angina, minimal or no elevation of serum cardiac markers, biphasic or deeply inverted T wave in leads V2-V3, sometimes extended in leads V1