A 40-year-old woman with SLE and the antiphospholipid syndrome presented acutely with sudden onset left sided loin pain. She was on life-long warfarin therapy for multiple DVTs and pulmonary emboli and hydroxychloroquine. Ultrasound scans showed a 10 mm focal area in the left kidney due to scarring or a small angiomyolipoma. A CT scan several months later showed a 2.7 × 3.9 cm left adrenal incidentaloma (), and she was referred to the endocrine clinic.
On examination, she was normotensive and had no clinical signs of endocrinopathy. Investigations including cortisol after 1 mg dexamethasone suppression overnight, urinary free cortisol (twice), urinary catecholamines (twice), aldosterone renin ratio, 17-hydroxyprogesterone, and chromogranins were all within the reference range. MRI scans showed a solid left adrenal lesion measuring 2.4 × 4 cm. without significant fat and no interval growth. However, in view of the phenotype and size of the adrenal mass she was referred to the endocrine surgeons. Following a review of her history of loin pain, and imaging, it was decided that she had a likely benign NSAI (uniform soft tissue signal intensity, well-defined margins, no local invasion, appropriate size, and no interval growth over 3 months), who may have developed acute symptoms as a result of haemorrhage into the lesion. Therefore a conservative approach was adopted with scans to be repeated in 3–6 months. Although the size of the lesion initially remained stable, imaging one year later revealed that it had increased in size to 3 × 5.4 cm. The patient therefore had left laparoscopic adrenalectomy. At surgery, there was no macroscopic invasion of adjacent structures and the lesion was excised with periadrenal fat.
Histology revealed a nonencapsulated high-grade leiomyosarcoma thought to have arisen from connective tissue but separate from the adrenal gland, that is, a retroperitoneal leiomyosarcoma (RL). There were atypical pleomorphic spindle cells forming a herringbone pattern in