The patient was a 67-year-old African-American gentleman who presented to his local community hospital emergency department complaining of an abrupt onset of right arm weakness and dizziness which resulted in a fall with associated head injury. The patient denied specific loss of consciousness or seizure activity. A chest X-ray at his initial evaluation demonstrated a nodule in the left upper lobe. A computed tomography (CT) scan of the brain showed a single left frontal lobe mass with vasogenic edema. CT scans of the chest, abdomen and pelvis revealed mediastinal adenopathy, and two lesions in the left upper lobe, consistent with a primary lung disease. A follow-on MRI of the brain demonstrated a single 2.1 cm enhancing lesion in the left precentral gyrus. A CT-guided fine-needle aspirate of the lung lesion demonstrated small cell lung cancer.
He met with a medical oncologist who outlined a treatment plan consisting of systemic chemotherapy followed by radiation to the brain and possibly concurrent radiochemotherapy to the chest. Immediately following his first round of systemic chemotherapy, a staging PET/CT demonstrated two hypermetabolic pulmonary lesions, the largest measuring 3.5 cm, extensive bilateral mediastinal and hilar activity, and a PET-avid right adrenal mass. He completed three cycles of a “programmatic”, locally defined cisplatin and irinotecan regimen with near complete resolution of his right-sided arm weakness. Restaging brain MRI demonstrated interval shrinkage in his single lesion and no further intracranial progression. A chest CT demonstrated a reduction in size of the lung lesions and resolution of the hilar and mediastinal adenopathy.
Prior to his next planned cycle of chemotherapy, he was seen in the Radiation Oncology Department. His complete history was reviewed, and he was staged with ES-SCLC or Stage IV, T3N2M1 by AJCC criteria []. After a discussion of the risks and benefits, the patient was treated to a C1-whole brain field using opposed lateral