This is a case of 71-year-old Caucasian male with past medical history significant for choroideremia who presented to the emergency department (ED) with complaints of left sided temporoparietal headache upon waking up on the day of admission.
Patient in his thirties had progressive vision loss and was diagnosed as choroideremia with the deletion of REP 1. He became completely blind by the age of 50. The other significant past medical history includes ablation for supraventricular tachycardia around 20 years ago, coronary artery disease with percutaneous coronary intervention in the left anterior descending artery around 10 years ago, hypertension, and hyperlipidemia. His social history is significant for no history of smoking, alcohol consumption, and drug abuse. His family history is significant for choroideremia in his brother (complete blindness) and carrier state in his sister (asymptomatic). His medications included aspirin, clopidogrel, losartan, and pravastatin.
On the day of admission, the patient woke up with a severe left sided temporoparietal headache with no numbness or weakness. Concerning this symptom, the patient contacted his primary care physician who advised the patient to go to the emergency department. His initial vitals in the ED were significant for blood pressure of 107/49 mm of hg and a heart rate of 38 beats per minute. The lab work was unremarkable with negative troponins; an ECG () that was done was significant for sinus bradycardia with some T wave abnormalities in lead V3 to V6 and the initial chest X-ray () was significant for prominence of the thoracic aorta. His physical examination was unremarkable except for his vision where the patient was able to perceive only shadows and otherwise he was completely blind. He had no focal neurological deficits. The differential at this time due to his symptoms and physical exam was possibly a pulmonary embolism versus any intracranial hemorrhage versus acute coronary syndrome. The repeat blood pressure bilaterally showed 134/61 mm of hg on the right arm and 123/53 mm