A 34-year-old man was referred to our hospital in May 2014 with a history of pain and swelling of the right hand for a duration of 3 months. The patient sustained an electrical shock to the right hand while repairing a domestic electrical appliance. He denied any cutaneous injury, loss of consciousness or injury to any other body part due to the electrical shock. He noticed pain in his right hand within one week of injury, which was treated with analgesics without relief. He noticed a subsequent swelling, deep aching pain, cutaneous hypersensitivity and discoloration of the right hand. The patient denied aggravation of symptoms during exposure to cold or any diurnal variation of the symptoms. The patient indicated severe pain, which he rated as 9 on a 10-point visual analogue scale (VAS). He was treated with a short course of oral prednisolone with physiotherapy at a peripheral hospital, but the improvement was not significant. The patient is employed as an infantry soldier, and the condition prevented him from being able to handle any weapons. He was also unable to use his right hand for activities of daily living. The patient denied alcohol consumption or tobacco use, and his previous medical history was unremarkable. Examination revealed stable vital parameters, and systemic examination was unremarkable. His right hand was markedly tender, hyperemic with diffuse swelling and cutaneous hypersensitivity (Figure ). Other vasomotor changes were absent, and the radial pulse was normally palpable on the right side. Muscle atrophy was not apparent, and there was generalized weakness of the hand muscles, likely because of the reduced effort by the patient.
His hematological and biochemical parameters were all normal, including the C-reactive protein, creatine kinase, calcium, phosphorus, alkaline phosphatase and 25-hydroxy vitamin D levels. A nerve conduction study and electromyography of the left upper extremity showed no evidence of neuropathy or myopathy. A Dual Energy X-ray Absorptiometry (DEXA) scan revealed a significant reduction in bone mass of the right