A 66-year-old woman of Middle-Eastern background presented with fevers, productive cough, and coryzal symptoms to a tertiary referral center and was diagnosed with right lower lobe community-acquired pneumonia. She had had three similar presentations within the previous year, leading to lengthy hospital admissions for treatment. A computed tomography chest (Fig. ) showed right lower lobe and lingula pneumonia along with multiple nodular lesions within the central airways causing varying degrees of obstruction.
Her past medical history included CLL diagnosed 7 years prior and managed on low-dose prednisone and regular intravenous immunoglobulin transfusions for associated immunoglobulin G deficiency, chronic hepatitis B, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, active smoking, and recurrent urinary tract infections.
The CLL had not responded to chlorambucil and rituximab nor had she shown a clinical response to steroid therapy despite a prolonged trial. Because of her poor performance status (Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group performance status of 2), there was concern about her tolerance of further immunosuppressive chemotherapy particularly given her poor response thus far. She was therefore referred for therapeutic endobronchial resection of the tumor deposits to reduce the risk of recurrent infection and airway collapse.
At bronchoscopy, multiple endobronchial polyps were present. A lesion on the postero-lateral wall of the proximal left main bronchus was causing noncritical obstruction. A second lesion, also non-obstructive, was noted in the left upper lobe. On the right, a polyp was present in the apical segment of the right upper lobe. A larger lesion was present in the distal bronchus intermedius (BI) along the posterior wall causing 60–70% obstruction of the right lower lobe lumen (Fig. ). This was resected using a snare diathermy and another lesion, arising from the RB6 segment, was noted and similarly resected. Six freeze–thaw cycles of cryotherapy were then applied to the base of the BI lesion. The patient tolerated the procedure well and was discharged home 2 days post bronchoscopy.
Histopathology revealed diffuse infiltration