A 56-year-old male construction worker presented to the emergency department with a two-week history of low back pain followed by left shoulder decreased range of motion and left wrist and ankle pain, in addition to associated fever and chills for two days. One week prior to his presentation, the patient sought medical advice for his back pain at an outpatient clinic; he was given a primary diagnosis of mechanical low back pain and his primary care physician referred him to physiotherapy. The patient had no history of a recent upper respiratory tract, gastrointestinal tract, or urinary tract infection. There was no history of recent travel, steroid use, or intravenous drug abuse. He denied alcohol abuse and smoking. Past medical history revealed dyslipidemia, as well as a previously drained perianal abscess two years before which was complicated by a fistula that was treated surgically one year prior to presentation.
Upon the patient's arrival to the emergency department, a temperature of 38.8°C was recorded and he was hemodynamically stable. Physical examination demonstrated low back tenderness and left shoulder swelling with limited and painful range of motion. His left wrist and ankle exam also showed decreased range of motion secondary to pain with moderate effusion. Cardiac examination did not reveal any murmurs. The neurological examination showed intact cranial nerves. His upper extremity neurological exam was unremarkable, but his lower extremity examination showed weakness of his right hip flexors and right knee extensors in comparison to the contralateral side (4/5). He had normal sensation and his biceps, triceps, and ankle reflexes were all normal.
No other foci of infection upon physical examination were noted.
Laboratory data revealed an elevated erythrocyte sedimentation rate (76 mm), an elevated C-reactive protein (420 mg/dL), and a white blood cell count of 17,000/mm3 (80% segmented neutrophils). Aspiration of the left shoulder returned purulent frank pus containing 148,000 leukocytes/mm3 with 80% neutrophils, and