A 43-year-old male patient presented to hospital, complaining of volume growth of the tongue with numbness for the past 1 month before consultation. The patient reported a long-term smoking and drinking habit.
This study was conducted with the approval of Medical Ethics Committee of Chongqing Cancer Hospital, and was performed in accordance with the ethical standards of the Helsinki Declaration. Written informed consents for his data and images to be used for our study and publication were obtained from patient before operation.
On intraoral clinical examination and palpation, an obvious smooth firm mass of about 2 cm in diameter on the mobile tongue with the same color as that of the surrounding mucosa was observed without other oral lesions. The cervical lymph nodes were not swollen on palpation. A biopsy was carried out and histopathological analysis demonstrated tissues formed by adenoid cystic carcinoma. Computed tomography (CT) of the head and neck enhanced scanning revealed an ill-defined measuring 23 mm × 19 mm high density mass with altered enhanced signal entities involving the anterior 2/3rd of the tongue. There was no obvious abnormality in the adjacent mandibular bone. No obvious enlarged lymph nodes were seen in both sides of the neck (Fig. ). The doppler ultrasound indicated that the submental and bilateral submandibular lymph nodes were all reactive.
The patient was positioned supine and then general anesthesia was given through nasal intubation. Incision was placed over the anteriorly till 2/3rd of tongue after emptying cervical lymph nodes at levels I–III ipsilateral to the tumor, and then the anterolateral femoral free flap (ALFT) was used to repair the defect of tongue and preserve the swallowing and speech function. During the intervention, a preventive tracheotomy was carried out to ensure breathing (Fig. ).
A histopathological examination defined ACC with a cribriform pattern. As is typically observed in ACC, the present case was positive for CD117(C-kit), CK8, epithelial membrane antigen (EMA), Ki