A 67-year-old Caucasian man presented with a persistent coughing for approximately 1 month. His symptom was not accompanied with loss of appetite, weight loss, or changes in bowel habits. The patient was smoking for about 25 years (approximately 40 pack-years) despite a 27-year abstinence from smoking. On laboratory investigation, peripheral blood counts and biochemical markers were within normal limits, except for a high rate of LDH. Serum concentrations of carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA), carbohydrate antigen (CA19-9), and alpha fetoprotein were within normal range as well.
Chest computed tomography (CT) showed multiple diffuse smooth thickening of the interstitial pulmonary parenchyma as well as an enlargement of the right paratracheal lymph nodes with a maximum diameter of 2.5 cm (). Contrast-enhanced abdominal CT scans revealed wall thickening of the cecum, the distal portion of the terminal ileum and the lower portion of the anion colon accompanied with pericolic inflammation and enlargement of the paracolic lymph nodes of the region (). No hepatic metastases were recognized. Main paraortic lymph nodes were observed with a maximum diameter of 2 cm.
A colonoscopy was performed revealing a large mass in the cecum expanding in the lower portion of the ascending colon (). Biopsies were taken showing adenocarcinoma. Furthermore, the cytological examination of the cells from the bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) revealed glandular tumor cells. The patient, following oncological council, subjected to neoadjuvant chemoradiation, in accordance with the therapeutic protocol for metastatic adenocarcinoma of colon with non-excludable pulmonary metastasis. Six months later, a right hemicolectomy () with side-to-side ileocolic anastomosis was performed. Has also be mentioned that no peritoneal metastases were observed in the presented case, although the patient had pulmonary metastases.
Histopathological examination of the resected specimen revealed a poor differentiated appendiceal mucinous adenocarcinoma () whereas a negative staining for CD56, chromogranin, and synaptophysin was noted. Venous and lymphatic (all the 35 resected lymph nodes)