A 50-year-old male patient presented with a history of sore throat and neck swellings persisting for about six months. There was no history of dyspnea or weight loss. He had a 60-pack-year history of smoking with no alcohol consumption. Flexible laryngoscopy under local anesthesia revealed bilateral intense arytenoid edema with fullness of the right pyriform sinus area. There were multiple right-sided palpable lymph nodes. The patient was scheduled for direct laryngoscopy and biopsy under general anesthesia. On the day of admission, the patient left the hospital in spite of detailed information given about the disease and the risks. He refused further interventions, including radiological investigations. One month later, he presented to the emergency unit with severe respiratory distress and was immediately taken to the operating room. The airway was secured via tracheotomy and direct laryngoscopy revealed an ulcerovegetant tumoral lesion originating from the medial wall of the right pyriform sinus. The tumor was filling the entire sinus and multiple punch biopsies were taken from the tumor. The remaining laryngeal structures had an intense edematous appearance ().
Contrast-enhanced CT () and MRI examinations demonstrated a tumoral mass at the right pyriform sinus extending through the extralaryngeal region with thyroid cartilage destruction and prevertebral area involvement. There were multiple lymphadenopathies with pathological configuration in the right side of the neck. Multiple metastatic nodules were detected in both lungs with thorax CT (). Radiological studies showed no other distant metastatic disease.
Histopathological analysis of the biopsy revealed a tumor consisting of tightly packed nests and diffuse irregularly shaped sheets of cells with areas of necrosis. The tumor cells were of small size with hyperchromatic, round to oval nuclei and scanty, poorly defined cytoplasm (). The nuclear chromatin was finely granular and nucleoli were absent. Nuclear molding was prominent and a typical crush artifact was present. The tumor cells were immunoreactive for pancytokeratin (), CD56 (), focal synaptophysin, and