A 53-year-old Caucasian man with a past medical history of recurrent pancreatitis for the last 18 months, depression, alcohol and tobacco abuse, was referred to our hospital after a 10-day hospitalization in a pulmonary clinic, where he was admitted due to dyspnea and two episodes of hemoptysis. An extensive workup had already been performed, including bronchoscopy, gastroscopy, chest and upper abdomen computed tomography (CT) scans. A diagnostic paracentesis had already been carried out and fluid samples were sent for further analysis. His upper gastrointestinal endoscopy and bronchoscopy did not show any remarkable findings, and his pleural fluid was plenteous in protein and amylase. His cytology reports were negative for malignancy and his pleural fluid adenosine deaminase levels showed no evidence of mycobacterial infection (Table ). He had a good clinical status, except for a mild shortness of breath on exertion. He reported no fever or chills and, despite having a good appetite the last six months, he noted a weight loss of 25kg. Additionally, he mentioned that over the last four months he had experienced difficulty in swallowing solid food. On admission, his physical examination revealed bilateral diminished breath sounds at the lung basis and a firm liver edge 5cm below the right costal margin. His laboratory results showed anemia, malnutrition and slightly elevated serum amylase (360U/L) (Table ). His chest CT scan revealed bilateral pleural effusions and a mass in the lower mediastinum (Figure ); these radiological findings were not present on his previous examinations nine months ago (Figure ). After a successful chest drainage clinical improvement was noticed, however, further chest CT imaging showed a longitudinal fluid collection in the mediastinum, along the lower esophagus, measuring 3×8cm (Figure A, B). This collection extended beyond the diaphragm and seemed to be connected with a small pseudocyst at the pancreatic tail (Figure ). He was on a specific enteral diet, lipase supplementation and octreotide (administered subcutaneously). Further evaluation with magnetic resonance cholangi