A 42-year-old man, active smoker, presented to the emergency room complaining of anterior left side chest pain that started approximately three hours before arrival. He woke up around 3:00 am with sudden onset severe crushing chest pain that was constant. It was associated with shortness of breath and diaphoresis. His medical history was significant for gastroesophageal reflux, hypertension, major depression, and chronic left shoulder pain diagnosed as impingement syndrome. Family history was noncontributory. He had an extensive past surgical history, which included a laparoscopic Nissen fundoplication at age 25 due to severe gastroesophageal reflux disease and associated esophagitis. Several months after this procedure, he required two open revisions of the Nissen procedure. The first was due to a hiatal hernia, and the second was due to a diaphragmatic rupture requiring diaphragm repair with prosthetic material. The patient developed a subdiaphragmatic abscess at age 30 that required antibiotics and diaphragmatic surgery where the prosthetic material was removed. In addition, at age 35 years, he had a spinal cord stimulator inserted, as treatment for chronic left shoulder and epigastric pain associated with persistent nausea and dry heaves. Three months prior to his current visit he had a diagnostic arthroscopy due to persistent left shoulder pain.
On physical exam, he was pale and in distress. Vital sings included an oral temperature of 97.6°F, blood pressure of 116/66 mmHg, heart rate of 45 beats per minute, respiratory rate of 18 breaths per minute, and oxygen saturation of 94% on room air. No rub or murmur was auscultated on initial cardiac examination. Lungs were clear to auscultation. The electrocardiogram (EKG) was significant for ST segment elevations in leads II, III, and aVF (). TIMI risk score was 2 (based on chest pain and EKG changes). The patient was immediately taken for coronary angiography, which showed no coronary artery obstruction. However, a halo around the cardiac