Staged bilateral total hip arthroplasties were performed on a 55-year-old man with a neglected untreated history of DDH, who gradually developed severe bilateral hip joint arthritis. The chief complains included bilateral hips and knee joints pain on walking associated with a progressive limitation in the range of hip motion and walking ability distance day after day. The history of the present problem went back to the age 45 with an incident of the low back pain repeated at the ages 50 and 52; each time relieved by conventional bed rest and other conservative measures. The progressive changes in lumbar spine (L2-L3) including discopathies and stenosis of the spinal canal were also contributed to his limitation of walking ability for last 10 years.
The patient was born as the last member of a large size family of a second degree consanguineous traditional marriage, with the maternal age 43, having 3 sisters and 4 brothers without hip disease. In the past medical history, the patient presented a history of the right nasolacrimal stenosis operated at the age of 3 and 8, right inguinal hernia operated for at 1 and 3. A suspected dentine dysplasia characterized by deciduous and permanent teeth with clinically normal appearing crowns, some hypermobility and spontaneous dental abscesses started in childhood and ended with the loss of all teeth at the age of 22 to 27. An unsuccessful closed reduction of the left hip joint at the age of 11 put in spica cast from the tip of the toe up to the chest level was performed and immobilized for 9 months. A history of night bedwetting, up to the age of 11, due to urinary reflux evolving in the left renal regression and hypoplasia, accidentally revealed upon a renal infection and diagnosed by renal angiography at the age of 22. A problem of ingrown toe nail started from the age of adolescence with multiple recurrence after a surgical correction was noticed. Two attacks of the left ear Menier’s disease reported to be experienced at the age of 33 and 44 years,