A 72-year-old, previously well, woman was found to have left ocular uveal melanoma on ophthalmology review (Fig. ). She had previously been noted to have ‘freckles’ on her left retina. At the time of diagnosis the patient was asymptomatic, suffered no visual impairment and declined further investigation, radiotherapy or enucleation. A one-year follow up showed growth of the uveal melanoma with staging undertaken prior to intended radiotherapy. An abdominal CT scan demonstrated a lesion within segments 4 and 7 of her liver (Fig. ). A Further PET scan showed a focal area of FDG avidity within segment 4 but no increased FDG uptake in liver segment 7,
A diagnostic laparoscopy was performed for the liver lesions of unknown origin. Intraoperatively, no free intraperitoneal fluid was seen but numerous peritoneal nodules were noted on the diaphragmatic and peritoneal surfaces, particularly in the right upper quadrant. There was no obvious omental disease. These peritoneal nodules along with the liver lesion were biopsied. The liver biopsy showed focally necrotic poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma. Immunohistochemical labeling was in keeping with cholangiocarcinoma and in the absence of a primary site in the extrahepatic biliary system or upper gastrointestinal tract the lesion was considered to likely represent a primary intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma. The lesion did not label for any immunohistochemical markers for melanoma. The peritoneal biopsy showed nodular proliferations of mesothelial cells with infiltration into the submesothelial adipose tissue indicative of malignant mesothelioma of epithelial type. Immunohistochemistry was positive for mesothelial markers and negative for carcinoma markers.
The patient’s father and brother had both died of malignant mesothelioma (Fig. ) having had occupational exposure to asbestos. The patient herself had no occupational exposure to asbestos but may have had ongoing household exposure since the 1970s. Her past medical history was unremarkable besides beta thalassemia minor and a previous hysterectomy for benign disease. The patient was of Greek descent. She was a non-smoker and only occasionally drank alcohol. The patient had four children, and two of