A fifty-nine year old male presented with a 4 × 2 cm lump in the right neck at level II. He had noticed the swelling for less than one week but reported a three year history of sore throat, fatigue, reduced exercise tolerance and shortness of breath. He had never smoked and consumed 18 international units of alcohol per week. There was no other lymphadenopathy and no intra-oral abnormality. Fine needle aspiration cytology was inconclusive and the patient underwent a diagnostic lymph node excision for histological evaluation, which showed metastatic squamous cell carcinoma. Computed tomography (CT) and 15fluoro-deoxyglucose positron emission tomography-computed tomography (FDG-PET/CT) were undertaken to identify the primary site and revealed a 2 cm mass involving the right tonsil with a right sided level II lymph node mass extending into the deep lobe of the right parotid gland. He was treated with radical chemoradiation comprising image-guided intensity modulated radiotherapy (IMRT) delivering 65Gy in 30 fractions to the oropharynx and right neck level II with 54Gy in 30 fractions to right neck levels III to V and left neck levels II to V. Concomitant cisplatin 100 mg/m2 was given on days 1 and 29 of radiotherapy. A FDG-PET/CT scan performed at 3 months post-treatment confirmed a complete metabolic response. The patient remains disease free after 15 months.
Histological evaluation of the excised lymph showed complete effacement by carcinoma comprising two clearly demarcated and morphologically distinct subpopulations of cells. In most areas, the two subpopulations were separated by fibrous tissue bands. Where the two phenotypes were not separated by fibrous tissue, there was abrupt delineation of the subpopulations without any intermediate transition. One component was composed of broad interconnecting strands of tumour cells with obvious squamous maturation but with minimal keratinisation typical of conventional HPV-associated OpSCC, designated the ‘differentiated’ component. The second component, referred to as the ‘undifferentiated’ component, was arranged as syncytial sheets of cells with comparatively large