A 56-year-old white female was brought into the emergency department presenting with severe abdominal pain and distension and reporting flatus expulsion and melenic stools in the previous two days. The patient had been experiencing nausea with cramping abdominal pain in the left flank, but with an absence of vomiting, for a period of two months. Although she had sought medical assistance on numerous occasions during this period, the symptoms had not improved.
Ten years earlier, the patient had presented with class III obesity (BMI 50.8 kg/m2) and had received laparoscopic RYGB with concomitant cholecystectomy. Postoperative recovery had been uneventful and the patient subsequently complied with nutritional guidelines. Her BMI diminished to 25 kg/m2 after one year and remained unchanged over the following years. The patient admitted smoking, but not alcoholism, during the last 30 years and had presented with vitamin D3 deficiency before and after the bariatric procedure.
Physical examination revealed peristalsis, intense pain on palpation, distended abdomen at the left costal border, and diffuse tympany on percussion. Abdominal computerized tomography (CT) revealed distension of the excluded stomach (Figures and ) and edema in the prepyloric wall. The patient was diagnosed with intestinal obstruction and referred for emergency laparoscopy.
During the course of surgery, distension of the excluded stomach was observed together with a hard lesion in the antropyloric region. Gastrostomy was performed in order to improve the initial clinical conditions and to facilitate diagnosis. Three days later, a further CT scan with intravenous contrast was performed and, by gastrostomy, it was possible to confirm the presence of a mass in the antropyloric region, but with no distant metastasis.
Laparoscopic intervention performed seven days later involved total gastrectomy, omentectomy, and D2 lymph node dissection while the primary Roux-en-Y (). Postoperative recovery was uneventful. Histopathological analysis confirmed the presence of a moderately differentiated gastric adenocarcinoma, with involvement of the submucosa, and lymphatic