A 23-year-old pregnant woman was referred to our institute with atypical chest pain, epigastric pain, and dysphagia. Her evaluation at the referring institution included a manometry study that showed diffuse esophageal spasm with a hypertensive LES and an esophagram that showed tertiary contractions with esophago-esophageal reflux and distal esophageal stricture. Evaluation for scleroderma and autoimmune disease was negative. Esophageal dilation was performed at the referring institution but did not resolve her symptoms. A trial of diltiazem was likewise unsuccessful. Imipramine and nitroglycerine had previously helped the patient somewhat, but her dysphagia continued to progress with further weight loss and a body mass index (BMI) of 17.5. The patient reported occasional alcohol use and had a remote social smoking history. The only medication that she used was cortisone cream, and she followed a self-restricted diet of soft foods.
Upon presentation to our institute, the patient reported a continued weight loss of 1.3 kilograms over the preceding 5 weeks and her BMI was now 16.5. Her previous test results were reviewed and found to be consistent with type III achalasia (). The patient had previously been scheduled for endoscopy, but when she discovered she was 7 weeks pregnant, she ceased all medications and canceled her planned endoscopy upon the advice of her obstetrician. Without treatment, her dysphagia worsened and she lost more weight, dropping to a BMI of 15.6. Her Eckardt score was 6 (dysphagia: 3, pain: 1, and regurgitation: 2), and she was treated for dehydration in the emergency department twice. Because medical management had failed to resolve her symptoms, surgery (Heller myotomy) and local botulinum toxin A injection to the LES during the second trimester were considered. The patient, her obstetrician, and our team chose to proceed with esophagogastroduodenoscopy (EGD) and botulinum toxin A injection and balloon dilation of the LES as a temporizing maneuver to help the patient