A 58-year-old Caucasian male presented to the emergency department with complaints of constipation and abdominal distension. He had experienced nausea and decreased bowel movements for a week, which were not alleviated by stool softeners or enemas. There was no history of diarrhea, fever, chills, weight changes, night sweats, hematochezia, or melena. A colonoscopy 4 years prior had only revealed a small benign polyp. The patient otherwise had no significant past medical history and was not taking any medications. No history of abdominal surgeries or significant family history of cancer was elicited. He denied the use of alcohol or smoking, but admitted to using smokeless tobacco. Vital signs and physical exam were essentially unremarkable. The abdomen was not visibly distended and normal bowel sounds were present. No hepatosplenomegaly or lymphadenopathy was appreciated. Laboratory results showed normal complete blood count, coagulation parameters, electrolytes, liver function tests, pancreatic enzymes, and kidney function. Alpha fetoprotein (AFP) and carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) were within normal limits. An abdominal computed tomography scan (CT scan) was concerning for a neoplasm causing small bowel obstruction, showing mid to distal small bowel dilatation with abnormal wall thickening and significant retained debris. The patient underwent a laparotomy and resection of a distal segment of ileum was performed.
On gross examination, a 39 cm portion of distal ileum was received and the central portion contained an 8 cm length saccular dilatation that had a hemorrhagic and nodular mucosa (Fig. and ). The bowel wall measured up to 0.9 cm in thickness and demonstrated underlying, ill-defined pale yellow tissue extending into the mesentery. On microscopic examination, an extensive transmural atypical nodular and diffuse lymphoid infiltrate was present and consisted predominantly of small B-lymphocytes, few plasma cells and focal areas of monocytoid B-cells (Fig. and ). This lymphoid infiltrate extended into the subserosal adipose tissue. The majority of nodules did not contain germinal centers; however,