A 21-year-old non-smoking young man presented with complaints of general fatigue and rapid weight loss in the past 3 months. During this period, he was referred to a local hospital for radiological examination. Computed tomographic (CT) scans revealed a huge mass in the left lung. A fibreoptic bronchoscopy was performed in the local hospital, but biopsy examination was negative because only inflammatory mucosa was observed under the microscopy. As a result, the patient was referred to our hospital for examination and treatment. Physical examination results were normal. The laboratory results, including blood count, serum tumor markers and liver and renal function, were within the normal range. The CT images acquired at the local hospital showed a 10.0 × 8.0 cm well-circumscribed mass in the left lower lobe of lung without signs of neighboring pleura invasion (Fig. and ). There was no enlarged lymph node of the pleural cavity found. Whole body F18-fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) positron emission tomography (PET)/CT study was not preformed at that time because there was no sign of tumor distant metastasis. Since the patient was a young adult, the preoperative impression of the lesion was a mesenchymal sarcoma of lung. The patient underwent a left lobe-ectomy of lung, and the mass was gross totally resected. Postoperative recovery was uneventful without surgical complications. After diagnosis, the patient received Crizotinib, an oral anaplastic lymphoma kinase inhibitor, at a dose of 250 mg twice daily. However, the patient rapidly presented back pain and left lower limb dysfunction at the third month after pulmonary surgery. The patient was then referred to a whole body PET/CT study to search for the potentially secondary tumor. PET/CT revealed that multiple abnormally increased FDG uptake was found in pelvic bone and vertebra. An intraspinal mass at T10 was also observed (Fig. ). A second laminectomy was performed under the impression of tumor metastasis, and the majority of the intraspinal mass was resected. However, the patient developed persistent fever and