A 57-year-old male patient with a smoking history of more than 40 years and extensive stage SCLC was brought to The Emergency Department at the Tartu University Hospital due to acute neurological symptoms: the patient had suddenly become disoriented and did not recognize his family members and relatives. Severe hyponatremia was diagnosed at his admission, with the sodium level of 104 mmol/L.
The patient had first been admitted to the Tartu University Hospital approximately 7 months earlier with extensive stage SCLC (lymph node and liver metastases). Patient's serum sodium level at diagnosis was normal. Patient's initial treatment had consisted of 6 cycles of chemotherapy with cisplatin and etoposide that had resulted in stable disease. Afterwards, the patient had been followed up for 2 months. Subsequently, a progressive disease had been diagnosed in primary site and liver and second-line chemotherapy with topotecan started. First cycle of topotecan had ended 2 days prior to the patient's admittance to the emergency department with acute neurological symptoms (mainly disorientation) described above.
In parallel with the hyponatremia referred to above, other abnormal blood tests included slight increases in the levels of serum bilirubin (43 μmol/L) and liver enzymes (alanine aminotransferase 145 U/L, aspartate aminotransferase 107 U/L), as well as increased levels of alkaline phosphatase (460 U/L) and lactate dehydrogenase (798 U/L). Serum levels of potassium, glucose, creatinine, urea, and ammonia were normal. Serum osmolality was decreased (218 mOsm/L), which is a frequent finding in patients with hyponatremia. For unknown reasons, urine sodium and osmolality analyses were not ordered by first physicians taking care of the patient. Definitely, these latter analyses would have added valuable information in the management of this case. Patient was euvolemic.
The computed tomography with contrast media showed no brain metastases.
In the emergency department, treatment of hyponatremia was initiated according to the current guidelines by administration of hypertonic saline via continuous infusion that