A 69-year old Caucasian lady presented to the emergency department with a two day history of haemoptysis, pleuritic chest pain and dyspnoea. She had a productive cough with thick, yellowish sputum, associated with intermittent low-grade pyrexia and mild weight loss over the past few weeks. There were no significant comorbidities, history of recent travel or positive family history. She was a non-smoker.
Physical examination revealed a septic patient, in apparent distress and extremely short of breath. Observations revealed pyrexia, tachycardia, tachypnoea and hypoxia with oxygen saturations of 93 % on air. Blood tests revealed a raised C-reactive protein of 347.2 mg/L along with a raised white cell count of 28.2 × 109 /L. Differential counts revealed neutrophilia 61.7 %, raised lymphocytes 33.2 % and eosinophilia 7 %. All other biochemical tests including urea and electrolytes, liver function tests and clotting profile were within normal range. She was started on broad-spectrum antibiotic therapy and her sputum sample was then cultured which revealed no significant bacterial growth including absence of acid fast bacilli for tuberculosis, however multiple cysts were seen on microscopy. A suspicion of hydatid disease was confirmed by a positive hydatid complement fixation test of the sputum.
Baseline investigations such as an electrocardiogram and echocardiography were unremarkable.
A plain chest radiograph showed a hydropneumothorax on the right side with the pneumothorax component measuring 16 mm. The left lung was clear. There was a near-complete whiteout of the right hemithorax with sparing of the apex, which was most likely to be a persistent pneumothorax with possible rupture of the hydatid cyst (Fig. ). In order to obtain more clear details of the disease process, a magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scan of the thorax and liver revealed a complex pulmonary mass, which extended from the right lower lobe of the lung, through the hemidiaphragm and into the posterior aspect of the right lobe of