A 55-year-old male with history of atrial fibrillation, HHT, hyperlipidemia, hypertension, prostate cancer status post prostatectomy, remote smoking, and obesity was scheduled for a Maze procedure for treatment of atrial fibrillation. Medications for this patient included estradiol TD nasal spray, cromolyn sodium nasal spray, mupirocin 2% nasal ointment, aspirin, digoxin, metoprolol, and pravastatin.
Preoperatively he was seen by Hematology for assessment of the use of anticoagulation therapy for atrial fibrillation in the setting of HHT. As mentioned, this patient was currently on only aspirin for anticoagulation given the risk of bleeding with HHT. After consultation, recommendations were to avoid further anticoagulation unless proved to be medically necessary in the setting of his cardiac pathology. Further recommendations revealed close follow-up with his physician as well as ongoing laboratory markers to evaluate for anemia.
The patient was also seen preoperatively in the Outpatient Preoperative Assessment Center in preparation for his surgery. Pertinent physical exam findings at that time revealed several telangiectasias on the tongue, lips, and right cheek. Exam of the airway revealed a mallampati class II, full cervical range of motion in all planes, and aforementioned small focal telangiectasias of the tongue but none noted in the posterior oropharynx. The patient was determined to be an ASA physical status 3 with good cardiac functional capacity. He also was determined to be high risk for obstructive sleep apnea as determined by the STOP BANG questionnaire.
Laboratory data included a hemoglobin of 15.1 g/dL, hematocrit of 43.6%, and electrocardiogram showing atrial fibrillation with a rate of 68. A chest x-ray reviled no cardiopulmonary pathology. There was a recent transthoracic echocardiogram completed revealing an ejection fraction of 59% with left ventricular hypertrophy and a mildly dilated left atrium. There were no signs of diastolic dysfunction, and the heart was otherwise structurally normal. Furthermore, there was also documented evidence of a negative lexiscan