An 89-year-old woman with a history of celiac disease, prior gastrointestinal bleeding, and dementia was admitted to our Intensive Care Unit for a recurrent gastrointestinal bleeding. The celiac disease had been diagnosed two years earlier by an endoscopic biopsy of the duodenum (demonstrating a subtotal villous atrophy) and with a correlative serum tissue transglutaminase IgA antibody (162 units, reference range 0–19 units). The patient had not been compliant with the recommended gluten-free diet because of early dementia and was treated with additional oral budesonide because of chronic abdominal discomfort. She was in her usual state of health until two days prior to this admission when she developed nausea and had multiple bouts of coffee ground emesis, with which she presented to the emergency room. She reported poor appetite and significant weight loss during the prior year, which had been ascribed to celiac disease-related malabsorption and led to therapy with oral budesonide. Her medical history was additionally significant for prior admission with similar symptoms of nausea, vomiting, and gastrointestinal bleeding with severe anemia three, six, and twelve months prior to the index presentation. Esophagogastroduodenoscopy (EGD) had been performed on all these occasions, showing gastritis and duodenitis with biopsies consistent with celiac disease. There was no history of tobacco or alcohol use and no family history of celiac disease or malignancies.
On admission, the patient was hypotensive with blood pressure of 93/49 mm Hg and heart rate of 86 beats per minute and afebrile and her respiratory rate was 18 breaths per minute. Physical examination revealed a palpable left paraumbilical mass and a 20 cm × 20 cm reducible hernia in the right abdominal wall. Laboratory work-up revealed hemoglobin of 6.9 g/dL (reference range, 12.0–16.0 g/dL). Serum chemistry, liver function tests, electrocardiogram, and chest radiograph were within normal limits. Abdominal computed tomography (CT) with intravenous contrast revealed a proximal dilatation of an abnormally thickened segment of the small bowel suspicious