Our patient, a 36 year-old white man, presented to the emergency department following 12 h of right flank pain radiating to the groin, associated with intractable nausea, that had not responded to hydration and ibuprofen. While generally in good health, except for a history of recurrent nephrolithiasis, he was approximately 3 weeks post-operative from a deviated nasal septum repair. He reported being a current smoker with no personal or family history of pulmonary problems, including: asthma, COPD, cystic fibrosis or alpha-1 anti-trypsinase deficiency. His nasal septal surgery and post-operative course had been uneventful, allowing him to return to his construction job 2 weeks after his surgery. He described no pulmonary complaints, however, on review of systems, he described an audible “rhythmic clicking” sound when lying on his left side. His wife confirmed that the sound first appeared soon after his surgery. Initially, she could hear it up to three feet away, most pronounced when lying in bed. Gradually the sound became quieter and infrequent during the subsequent week.
Physical examination revealed head, neck, chest, cardiac and specifically respiratory exam within normal limits. Attempts to reproduce the sound by palpation or positioning in the left lateral decubitus position were unsuccessful. The abdominal exam identified only right flank and costovertebral tenderness.
An abdominal and pelvic CT revealed a 5.3 mm left distal ureteral stone with mild hydronephrosis. Proximal abdominal CT scan slices appeared suspicious for a small pneumothorax later confirmed by chest CT which delineated a tiny left anterior basilar pneumothorax, free of mass, nodule, or infiltrate. CT showed no evidence of hilar adenopathy nor bullae (Fig. ).
Our patient was admitted to the hospital, placed on high flow O2 therapy as well as aggressive fluid hydration and tamsulosin 0.4 mg daily. He was discharged on hospital day 2 after a CXR confirmed resolution of the pneumothorax with recommendations to follow up