A 54-year-old male with a history of progressive ankylosing spondylitis presented to our hospital with complaints of worsening bilateral leg weakness and difficulty ambulating. He also described a shooting, electric sensation that began in his lower back and radiated laterally to his hips and down his legs whenever he flexed his trunk, such as when transferring from a seated to standing position. A skiing accident occurred approximately 2 months prior to presentation during which the patient sustained a fracture dislocation of his right shoulder. Imaging at that time included X-rays of the right shoulder, in addition to imaging of the thoracic and lumbar spine. These images were unremarkable other than degenerative changes consistent with the patient's previous diagnosis of ankylosing spondylitis. Several weeks after the accident he began to experience an intermittent, sharp pain in his lower back that radiated anteriorly around his abdomen at the T10 level. He had been to both his primary care and physical medicine and rehabilitation physicians after the accident, and they had followed him up for further medical management and physical therapy.
Approximately 2 weeks prior to admission, the patient began to experience the intermittent shock-like sensation and worsening bilateral lower extremity weakness. He described his weakness as not only a perceived loss of muscular strength but also an excessive fatigue resulting in the inability to complete physical activities that had previously been routine for him. Two days before presenting to the hospital, the patient was unable to lift himself off an exercise mat after the completion of a physical therapy appointment and required the assistance of his wife and son to help him return to his vehicle. He subsequently developed a wide-based and ataxic gait with frequent loss of balance and near falls. Pertinent negatives throughout the course of this patient's presentation include any loss of bowel or bladder function, loss of consciousness, dizziness, light-headedness, vertigo, headache, numbness, tingling, burning, or other neurological symptoms other than those already described.
The patient's past medical history included