A 40-year-old Caucasian female with a past medical history of hypertension presented to the outpatient clinic for evaluation of abnormal perception of motion which she described as constant rocking and swaying after a ship cruise which lasted for one week. It began few hours after returning from a week ship cruise four months ago. The symptoms are worse at bedtime when lying still and early in the morning upon awakening. Symptoms were alleviated by motion activities like driving and being in a moving car. She denied nausea and vomiting. She had no history of headaches, double vision, vertigo, ringing in the ears, or hearing deficits. In addition to her past medical history of hypertension for which she takes lisinopril, she had acid reflux and cholecystectomy. She denied tobacco dependence and alcohol or illicit drug abuse. Physical examination was unremarkable, with no signs of depression elicited. The patient had not responded to empirical treatment with various motion sickness therapies, which included meclizine, scopolamine, low dose steroid, and Medrol for possible labyrinthitis. Videonystagmography (VNG) and Vestibular Evoked Myogenic Potential (VEMP) to determine the functionality of the ears, vestibular deficits, and integrity of the inner ear were all normal. The ENT and neurology team evaluated her. All her laboratory studies were negative. Radiological studies such as CT scan and MRI were negative. In the setting of negative laboratory studies, imaging studies, and normal ENT and neurological evaluations, with symptoms unresponsive to conventional motion sickness therapy, a provisional diagnosis of MDS was made. The patient was started on low dose benzodiazepine (valium 2 mg at bedtime), which aided her nighttime symptoms. The patient received physical therapy for focused vestibular/balance rehabilitation, which offered partial relief. The patient joined the MDS online foundation support group, a forum to interact with other MDS patients and former patients who had recovered. She was carefully followed up in the outpatient