A 69-year-old woman was referred to our institute for further evaluation of a tongue mass. She had a 5-year history of pain involving the right lateral tongue edge, and the lesion had been diagnosed as lichen planus by incisional biopsy performed by her dentist. The disease was stable for a long time; however, the tongue pain suddenly worsened. Physical examination revealed an elastic, hard, 1.2 × 0.7 cm mass of the right tongue (Fig. ). There was no palpable lymphadenopathy in the head and neck area. The patient was being medically treated for hypertension and diabetes mellitus, both of which were well controlled. She denied using tobacco or alcohol but had been exposed to smoke from her family. She had no history of exposure to ionizing radiation or having undergone cancer chemotherapy. Regarding her family history, her younger brother had been treated for rectal cancer and liver metastasis.
Contrast-enhanced CT scans of the head and neck, chest, and liver were performed as a routine procedure in patients with oral cavity cancer. CT showed no lesions in the tongue, cervical lymph nodes, lungs, bone, or liver; however, three masses were detected in both breasts and the right kidney. Whole-body FDG-PET was performed to identify any other lesions; no other lesions were found. An upper gastrointestinal examination, indirect laryngoscopic examination, and bone scintigraphy revealed no abnormalities. The patient had no breast- or kidney-related signs or symptoms before we identified the masses. Fine-needle aspiration cytology was performed to confirm the diagnosis of the bilateral breast masses and revealed malignancy on both sides. Renal cancer was suspected based on the CT findings (Fig. , arrow). All four lesions were diagnosed as early-stage cancers at the initial presentation.
We removed the four tumors over three surgical procedures because the patient had diabetes mellitus. The patient underwent wide local excision of the tongue tumor. Histopathological examination revealed a moderately differentiated SCC. The bilateral breast lesions were then resected, and