An 83-year-old man presented to our university hospital because of uneradicated periprosthetic infection after TKA. He had undergone right primary TKA for incapacitating knee pain recalcitrant to conservative therapy at a previous hospital 35 months before visiting our hospital (). Eleven months after the first surgery, deep infection of TKA caused by methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) occurred, so two-stage exchange arthroplasty (revision TKA following open irrigation and debridement of component retention) was performed 15 months after the first surgical procedure (Figures and ), and treatment with vancomycin was employed. The patient received a blood transfusion of 1,680 mL red cell concentrates during the revision TKA. The infection recurred 1 month after revision TKA, and treatment was repeated with implant removal, debridement, and insertion of an antibiotic-impregnated cement spacer (). During this surgery, a blood transfusion of 2,800 mL was required again. However, the infection persisted, so the patient presented to our hospital 22 months after the primary TKA. Antibiotic-impregnated cement spacer exchange and debridement were repeated 7 months after revision TKA and eradication of infection was confirmed with aspiration in the outpatient clinic of our hospital more than three times. In addition, after completion of antibiotic therapy, the ESR, CRP level, and total WBC and differential counts in the joint aspirates were obtained, and the patient was observed for 2 more weeks. This was the fifth surgery the patient underwent.
The patient, 60 kg in weight and 156 cm in height, with a body mass index (BMI) of 25 kg/m2, had a history of hypertension, hypercholesteremia, and liver abscess and a 40-year smoking history. There was no history of ischemic heart disease or cerebrovascular problems, and there had been no symptoms of peripheral vascular dysfunction. He could walk with two canes. Preoperative knee motion with articulating cement spacer ranged from −5° of extension to 85° of flexion, and lag was 10°