Case 2. The patient was a 40-year-old female without history of smoking and with a history of exposure to birds. She had a history of childhood asthma and a family history of breast cancer. She was diagnosed at 37 years with bilateral invasive ductal carcinoma with axillary lymph node metastasis during pregnancy. She received neoadjuvant chemotherapy before surgery with Adriamycin and cyclophosphamide followed by docetaxel. She underwent bilateral mastectomy with dissection of axillary lymph nodes and received adjuvant chemotherapy with 4 cycles of cyclophosphamide, methotrexate, and fluorouracil with concomitant radiotherapy afterwards. The initial chest radiography after the diagnosis of breast cancer was normal. However, in the follow-up chest radiographs, a progressive loss of lung volume at the expense of the upper lobes was noticed, which manifested by superior shrinkage and distortion of the pulmonary hila, and the appearance of coarse irregular linear opacities at higher fields and biapical pleural thickening with linear opacities of scar appearance in the neighboring lung parenchyma (see ). 15 months after radiotherapy, the patient presented with acute dyspnea and chest pain. She was diagnosed with right spontaneous pneumothorax that required thorax drainage.
Subsequently, she presented exertional dyspnea with ordinary physical activity (New York Heart Association Functional Class II) and dry cough, for which she was referred to our consult for further study.
On physical examination, she had a low BMI of 19, no acropachy, and diminished global vesicular breath sound. The chest X-ray showed worsening compared to the previous one, with apical pleural thickening, hilar retraction, and flattened thorax on the lateral projection ().
The first HRCT performed to this patient 16 months after diagnosis of breast cancer showed only discrete linear opacities of fibrotic appearance in both lung apices.
However, the second HRCT, performed during the period in which the patient experienced the spontaneous pneumothorax, revealed that the upper linear opacities had progressed to pulmonary infiltrates of fibrotic appearance. Also evident was a thickening of the visceral pleura, clearly visible due to the adjacent pneumothorax