A 60 year old diabetic, non smoker, housewife presented to us with complaints of gradual onset, progressive dysphagia initially for solid and later for liquid food for one and a half year and foreign body sensation in throat for 6 months. She had lost 10 kg over last 6 months, despite having a good appetite. She did not have significant medical or surgical illness or intervention in the past. General and systemic clinical examination was normal. Her hematological and biochemical investigations were normal too. Barium esophagogram revealed smooth narrowing of the mid thoracic esophagus with proximal dilatation (Fig. ). Esophagoscopy was suggestive of a submucosal growth with intact mucosa from 18 to 25 cm from central incisors, involving half of the circumference of esophagus, located at 12 to 6 o’ clock position (Fig. ). Contrast enhanced computed tomography (CECT) scan of neck, chest and abdomen revealed a longitudinally oriented, well defined, non-enhancing, homogenous lesion involving the lower cervical and upper thoracic esophagus, causing significant luminal narrowing (Fig. ). The patient underwent a right lateral thoracotomy. Esophageal dissection was done and longitudinal incision was made in the esophagus, over the lesion which was deepened through the muscle layer and enucleation of the lesion was performed. It was a solid, submucosal mass measuring 8.5 × 6 × 2.5 cm (Fig. ). While dissecting the mass out, there was a 6 cm long clear rent in the mucosa but as the tissue was healthy, uninflamed and well vascularised, it was primarily repaired in two layers and reinforced with adjacent pleural flaps. She was kept on partial parenteral nutrition, intravenous Pantoprazole, nasogastric drainage and enteral feeding was done through feeding jejunostomy. Contrast esophagogram on seventh postoperative day revealed normal esophagus (Fig. ). She was started on liquid diet initially and later she could swallow both solid and liquid food without dysphagia. She was discharged from hospital on tenth postoperative day. Gross pathology demonstrated an encapsulated solid mass with