A 55-year-old, Caucasian woman was referred to our tertiary women’s heart center for persistent chest pain, palpitations, and dyspnea. Her medical history included hypertension, dyslipidemia, chronic anxiety, and bilateral non-obstructive carotid atherosclerosis. She had no prior history of diabetes mellitus, tobacco smoking, alcohol or substance abuse, or adverse pregnancy outcomes. Her family history was significant for premature coronary artery disease. Her father had a history of hypertension and had a myocardial infarction (MI) and coronary artery bypass grafting at the age of 39. Her brother had a history of coronary artery disease and also had a MI at the age of 40. Her occupational history indicated that she had been working in the field of psychology and was still an employee in the same job at the time of the hospital visit and follow-up care.
Table summarizes the general symptoms and characteristic signs of our patient for the onset of CMD and her progression to HFpEF. She had undergone an exercise treadmill test which revealed ischemic ECG changes and dyspnea. Her initial echocardiogram demonstrated a LVEF of 67%, mild diastolic dysfunction, mild left ventricular (LV) hypertrophy, no significant valvular heart disease, and no pulmonary hypertension. Subsequent invasive left heart catheterization was performed and it showed normal epicardial coronary arteries without angiographic evidence of atherosclerotic plaque. She continued to have exertional symptoms and angina-like chest pain and was subsequently referred to our center for further evaluation of suspected INOCA. During her evaluation and treatment she continued to experience stable angina and exertional dyspnea despite initial management with atorvastatin 20 mg daily, lisinopril 20 mg daily, aspirin 81 mg daily, and sublingual nitroglycerin as needed. She had a poor clinical response to sublingual nitroglycerin. Due to her persistent symptoms and abnormal stress testing, she was referred for coronary reactivity testing (CRT) to establish the diagnosis of CMD.
Our patient underwent invasive CRT, as previously published []. Testing demonstrated normal coronary flow reserve (CFR) in response to intra-cor