This is a case of a 27-year-old Caucasian male with past medical history significant for ALL who was brought into the ED by the EMS after an episode of cardiac arrest.
The patient's history starts when he was 5 years of age when he was diagnosed with Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia. He underwent chemotherapy with vincristine, doxorubicin, and steroids at the time of diagnosis. At the end of two years, it was diagnosed that his ALL has progressed to involve the central nervous system and he was given chemotherapy for an additional two years which also included methotrexate. During this time the patient had complaints of constipation and after two weeks of no bowel movements, the patient was found straining in the toilet when he clenched his chest due to pain and fainted. He was taken to the hospital where he had a blood work and echocardiogram which were unremarkable. The patient recovered completely with no further similar episodes in his childhood. It is unclear whether the patient had an acute coronary syndrome or any arrythmias at that time. The patient eventually lost follow-up with his primary care doctor. There is no other past medical history and no positive family history for cardiac diseases. The patient also denied smoking, drinking of alcohol, and illicit drug use which was confirmed with the patient later.
On the day of admission, the patient was performing his usual duties in his workplace which included lifting of heavy objects. When the patient was walking after his work, he suddenly collapsed down on the floor. His friend who was present at the side witnessed this event. There was no breathing or palpable pulse. CPR was started and the paddles of the AED were connected which showed a shockable rhythm. The patient was shocked for four times and chest compression was given in between. When the patient was brought to the emergency department of the hospital he had an EKG () which showed normal sinus rhythm, Q waves in the inferior wall leads concerning old myocardial