A 42-year-old Caucasian male with body mass index of 54 presented to outpatient clinic with 70-pound weight loss, hematuria, and purulent, malodorous discharge from the site of his buried penis. He was circumcised as an infant and denied any smoking history. The phallus was contained within a suprapubic fat pad and he had been sitting to void without seeing the phallus for several months. Although overall hygiene was adequate, the suprapubic cavity was impossible to maintain hygiene. Examination caused significant discomfort in attempt to visualize the phallus while in clinic prompting an examination under anesthesia. MRI revealed corporal bodies with a large mass replacing the glans penis and distal shaft (). At the time of examination, the phallus was replaced by tumor and no identifiable structures were apparent (). A suprapubic tube was placed and biopsies were taken. After appropriate discussion of treatment options, a total penectomy was performed. Pathologic examination of surgical specimens revealed high grade, poorly differentiated squamous cell carcinoma replacing the corporal bodies and urethra, pT3 with staining which was positive for p16. The lymph nodes were radiographically negative, but the patient chose to have radiotherapy to his lymph nodes rather than inguinal lymph node dissection. Despite negative surgical margins, he locally recurred with a cystic cavity within the suprapubic fat pad about 6 months after surgery. This was excised with wide margins and he is currently undergoing system chemotherapy.
A 57-year-old Caucasian male with body mass index of 59 presented to the emergency department with complaints of bleeding and purulent discharge from the site of his buried penis. He was also circumcised as an infant and denied history of smoking. Once again, the phallus was contained within a suprapubic fat pad and was unable to be examined due to pain. He had also been sitting to void with a severely weakened stream and lack of phallus visualization for several months. Examination