A 56-year-old Malaysian woman with a past medical history of anemia presented with lower extremity swelling, early satiety, and abdominal discomfort of 1 month’s duration. She reported worsening of leg edema upon standing for short periods of time. She denied chest pain or shortness of breath. She had emigrated from Malaysia approximately 10 years before presentation. She had been taking oral iron supplementation and omeprazole. A colonoscopy had been performed 1 year before presentation to assess for gastrointestinal bleeding, and the results were normal. Her Helicobacter pylori breath test result was positive, and she was started on triple therapy with two antibiotics plus a proton pump inhibitor. An endoscopic examination was done, and the result was suggestive of a mass, though the diagnosis was not definitive. Her family history was not significant. Her social history was significant for frequent consumption of fish in Malaysia and was negative for alcohol, cigarette, or drug use.
Upon her admission to Stanford University Hospital, she reported a 10-lb weight gain. The weight gain was caused by edema, though she felt a sensation that she was becoming thinner. She reported that she was unable to stand for more than 15 minutes owing to accumulation of fluid in her legs. She reported that her mobility was thus limited. Her vital signs were stable, with a body temperature of 37°C, blood pressure of 134/78mmHg, pulse of 79 beats per minute, and respiratory rate of 18 breaths per minute. Her O2 saturation was 100%. Her physical examination revealed a grade 3/6 systolic ejection murmur heard best at the left lower sternal border. Her abdomen was non-tender to palpation, and her bowel sounds were normoactive. Examination of the extremities revealed 2+ non-pitting edema extending to her thighs bilaterally. She had no palpable peri-umbilical or supraclavicular nodes. She had no other palpable lymphadenopathy. Her skin examination was normal. Laboratory values showed hemoglobin of 8.5g