In February 2010, a then 69-year-old female presented to her family physician with weight loss, early satiety and jaundice without abdominal pain, nausea, or vomiting. She was otherwise in excellent medical condition with her only significant past medical or surgical history being cervical carcinoma in situ treated with hysterectomy at age 29. She had no history of smoking and used alcohol only on rare social occasions. In addition, there was no family history of any malignant disease. Her initial workup included laboratory investigations that were significant for hyperbilirubinemia of 8.7 mcg/dL. This was followed by computed tomography (CT) of the abdomen and pelvis that revealed significant intra- and extrahepatic ductal dilatation (Fig. ) and a 2.69 × 2.64 cm mass in the head of the pancreas (Fig. ). There was no evidence of peripancreatic, periportal, mesenteric, or celiac axis adenopathy, nor was there evidence of distant metastatic disease. In addition, there was no abutment on the mass to the portal vein or the superior mesenteric artery and vein. Based on these initial CT findings, this was a resectable pancreatic head mass.
Her workup continued with endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) and endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP). These studies confirmed the presence of a mass within the head of the pancreas and demonstrated a 2-cm distal common bile duct stricture. Brushings of this area confirmed the presence of adenocarcinoma.
The patient was then referred for a surgical oncology evaluation. Repeat CT of the chest, abdomen, and pelvis was consistent with her original scan and showed no evidence of metastatic disease. Her CA 19-9 was checked and found to be elevated at 441 U/mL. Her case was discussed in a multidisciplinary tumor board, and because she appeared to be resectable at presentation, surgery rather than neoadjuvant therapy was offered.
In March of 2010, she was taken to the operating room where diagnostic laparoscopy revealed no evidence of metastasis and a classic pancreaticoduodenectomy was