A previously well 67-year-old male was presented to the emergency department with acute shortness of breath and chest discomfort. He had no significant medical or surgical history, was not on medications, and did not have a smoking history, recent travel history, or prolonged period of immobilization. There was no family history of malignancy.
On examination, he was mildly tachycardic at 110 beats per minute but regular, with a blood pressure of 130/80 mm Hg. He was tachypnoeic at 16 breaths per minute but afebrile. The remainder of his clinical examination was normal. A pulmonary embolus was suspected clinically and a computed tomography (CT) pulmonary angiogram was performed demonstrating multifocal filling defects in the pulmonary arterial system in both lungs mostly in the lower lobes confirming the diagnosis of acute bilateral pulmonary embolism (Figure ). No complicating pulmonary infarction was seen on CT. He was admitted to the hospital and treated initially with subcutaneous enoxaparin injections and was commenced on warfarin.
During his hospital admission, he was investigated for a cause of pulmonary embolism and serologic screening tests for coagulopathy including anti-thrombin III, Protein C, and Protein S deficiency were negative. A bilateral lower limb duplex ultrasound scan was then requested. Although no deep vein thrombosis was identified in the lower limb and pelvic veins including the lower inferior vena cava, a mass measuring 4.9 × 3.0 cm was identified in the root of the mesentery (Figure ). Subsequent CT of the abdomen after administration of oral and intravenous contrast (Figure ) confirmed a solitary soft tissue attenuating mass in the mid abdomen. No central necrosis or calcification was identified.
The patient remained hemodynamically stable throughout his admission and he declined further investigations and procedures. As the international normalized ratio was therapeutic (2–3) at that stage, he was discharged home and was organized to have an F-18 FDG PET/CT and follow-up in the outpatient clinic. The F-18 FDG PET/