A 71-year-old hypertensive man presented to hospital with a 1-day history of chest pain and dyspnea. Enhanced computed tomography (CT) revealed type B aortic dissection. He was transferred to our hospital for further investigation and care. His medical history included medically managed hypertension, untreated diabetes mellitus, and a 50-year smoking habit (Brinkman index: 1500).
On presentation, blood pressure was controlled below 120 mmHg with nicardipine. The patient complained of back pain. Abdominal and peripheral pulse examinations revealed no abnormality. Enhanced CT showed dissection and coagulation in the false lumen from distal to left subclavian artery at the renal artery level. Contrast-enhanced CT and echocardiographic findings did not reveal any congenital heart defects such as right-sided aortic arch or cardiac malformation. Two arterial anomalies were observed. The right subclavian artery arose from the aortic arch posterolateral to the origin of the left subclavian artery. The right vertebral artery arose from the right common carotid artery (). All aortic branches including the aberrant right subclavian artery arose from the true lumen.
Upon admission, antihypertensive and analgesic treatment with bed rest were initiated. The symptoms were gradually ameliorated; therefore we performed rehabilitation in accordance with the type B acute aortic dissection rehabilitation protocol utilized by our hospital. Contrast-enhanced CT was performed on hospitalization days 2, 4, 7, and 12 to assess the aortic condition. No changes such as dilation or emergence of ULP were noted. After the rehabilitation protocol was completed, the patient was discharged. Hypotensive drugs were prescribed to control blood pressure, and the patient was scheduled for outpatient follow-up aortic imaging.
On day 11 after discharge (day 25 after onset), the patient visited our hospital for outpatient follow-up. Contrast-enhanced CT findings revealed a ULP (). We determined that the patient had complicated type B dissection, and an urgent operation was required. After the necessary presurgical checkups, we performed endovascular repair under general anesthesia, with tracheal intubation for mechanical ventilation. The right brachial artery was accessed