A 45-year-old man reported to his general practitioner with recurrent and strong, but self-limiting, left-sided epistaxis over the preceding 2 to 3 months, each time lasting up to 10 minutes. He also felt an intermittent, dull pain on the left side of his nose and the strange sensation of a slowly growing mass inside his nose, but neither nasal obstruction nor hypesthesia of the face. An excision under local anesthesia was then attempted. The effort was abandoned because of strong bleeding, a nosepad was applied and then the patient was referred as an emergency to our clinic. Upon arrival the bleeding had stopped.
The personal history showed an appropriately treated arterial hypertension and no regular alcohol or nicotine consumption or substance abuse. There was no high incidence of cancer in the family history.
A clinical examination showed a healthy albeit obese man with a marginally elevated blood pressure level. After removal of the nosepad and suction cleaning, the nasal inspection showed a well-defined tumor of the lateral nasal wall on the anterior face of the inferior turbinate, approximately 10 mm in size. The tumor surface exhibited several incisions. Anterior and posterior rhinoscopy revealed a slight deviation of the nasal septum, but no other intranasal pathology. The external nose showed a slight, though distinctly palpable swelling in the area between the lateral cartilage and the nasal bone on the left side.
To further investigate the repeatedly bleeding endonasal mass a CT scan with contrast was conducted. It showed a tumor of the inferior turbinate, only marginally contrast enhancing, 24 mm in the largest diameter. No bony erosion was reported, and an infiltration of the lateral nasal cartilage could not be ruled out (). A biopsy under local anesthesia revealed the diagnosis of angioleiomyoma. To differentiate the tumor growth and the involvement of nasal cartilage, a MRI scan was ordered (). The scan showed a 9 × 11 × 8 mm (W × H × D) sized, nodular, contrast enhancing lesion emanating from the