A 34-year-old man (height 172 cm, weight 87 kg, body mass index 29.4 kg/m2) had been followed for purpura nephritis since he was 18 years of age. Since 32 years of age, he had been treated for hyperlipidemia with 20 mg of atorvastatin (cholesterol-lower agent). He had no history of alcohol abuse or smoking. Because of the gradual progression of renal failure, he was started on corticosteroid therapy (prednisolone at 30 mg/day) for the first time at 34 years of age.
The time course of the corticosteroid therapy is shown in Fig. . Two months after the initiation of corticosteroid therapy, he underwent tonsillectomy followed by corticosteroid pulsed treatment (500 mg of methylprednisolone for 6 days) for purpura nephritis. The prednisolone dose was gradually decreased, declining to 10 mg/day at 6 months after its initiation. He was not on any diet or exercise program during the corticosteroid therapy, even though he was overweight.
Eight months after the initiation of corticosteroid therapy, he complained of left hip pain with no antecedent triggering activity. T1-weighted MRI scans obtained 2 weeks after the onset demonstrated a low-intensity band lesion in the left femoral head (Fig. ). On the other hand, there was no obvious abnormality in the right femoral head. On short tau inversion recovery (STIR) images, an associated bone marrow edematous lesion was confirmed distal to the band lesion on the left side, indicating the occurrence of femoral head collapse (Fig. ). The patient was diagnosed with unilateral osteonecrosis of the left femoral head and was referred to our department.
Although osteonecrosis of the left femoral head had collapsed already, joint preserving procedures, such as osteotomy and bone grafting, were considered to be more suitable than total hip arthroplasty since the patient was relatively young. For the purpose of evaluating the indications of osteotomy, he underwent MRI again 6 weeks after the initial MRI. This time, a low-intensity band newly appeared in the right femoral head on T