We present a case of a 58-year-old, right-handed gentleman with a medical history of Type II diabetes, obstructive sleep apnea, gastroesophageal reflux disease, asthma, gout, anxiety, and depression. He was an ex-smoker with a 40 pack-year smoking history. His oncologic family history was significant for his father dying from bladder cancer.
In the spring of 2014, the patient initially presented to his local emergency room with progressive frontotemporal headaches, a right visual field deficit, decreased appetite, weight loss, and a fall without sustaining traumatic injuries. On a review of systems, no respiratory, genitourinary, or additional neurological symptoms were described aside from increased daytime urinary frequency.
Physical examination revealed an obese gentleman (BMI of 41) with normal vital signs. The patient was alert, oriented to person, place and time, and ambulatory with a normal gait. Cranial nerve exam revealed right visual field deficits. Auscultation of the lungs revealed clear, equal air entry bilaterally without any adventitious sounds appreciated. No masses, organomegaly, or pelvic lymphadenopathy were appreciated on the abdominal exam, but this was limited due to his large body habitus. Digital rectal exam revealed a small, smooth, firm prostate without rectal masses.
A CT and MRI of the head was completed with the latter revealing a heterogeneous mass in the left occipital lobe with solid and cystic components measuring 2.9 cm. There was associated cerebral edema with a 0.2 cm right-sided midline shift and no hydrocephalus identified (Figure ).
The leading differential diagnosis at the time was a primary brain malignancy, and accordingly, referral to neurosurgery at the same tertiary hospital was arranged. The patient subsequently underwent left occipital craniotomy and resection of the mass within five weeks of the initial referral. Pathology returned as metastatic adenocarcinoma, suggestive of a lung primary as it stained positive for cytokeratin 7 and TTF-1 and negative for cytokeratin 20. Adjuvant whole-brain radiotherapy was delivered to a dose