This is a 17-year-old female with a history of depression, anxiety, chronic abdominal pain, and heavy and painful menses for which she takes an oral contraceptive pill. She presented with a two-week history of worsening abdominal pain, described as a constant dull ache located in the pelvic region and accompanied by nausea with bilious emesis, and mild chest pain. She had been seen in her primary care physician's office four days prior to admission and given hyoscyamine for her pain with minimal relief. No associated menstrual symptoms were noted.
The patient admits to smoking 5–7 cigarettes daily but denies any drug or alcohol use. Her last sexual encounter was 6 months prior to admission and she denies any prior pregnancy or sexually transmitted infections.
She presented to the Emergency Department and vital signs showed tachycardia and elevated blood pressure. Her cardiac examination was normal and there was no prior history of any murmur. Her abdominal exam showed diffuse tenderness in the lower quadrants and pelvic area, without distension. Cervical motion tenderness was elicited and white discharge was noted on pelvic exam. Wet prep was negative for trichomonas, yeast, and clue cells. Laboratory values were significant for leukocytosis of 30,850 and eosinophilia of 52.4%. Computed tomography (CT) of the abdomen showed thickening and edema of the wall of the duodenum and proximal jejunum, ascites in the upper abdomen, and appearance of a collapsed hemorrhagic cyst/corpus luteum in the left adnexa. The patient was given intravenous doxycycline, cefotetan, and analgesia prior to admission.
Gynecology was consulted and treatment was directed towards a ruptured ovarian cyst. No surgical intervention was recommended and plan was to treat patient for a possible culture negative pelvic inflammatory disease. Repeat complete blood count was unchanged with eosinophilia and leukocytosis and clinically patient was improving.
On day two of admission she had an acute decompensation with bilious emesis and severe hypotension. She