A 40-year-old male belonging to a poor socioeconomic status was referred to the Outpatient Department of Periodontology from ENT Department with a chief complaint of constantly recurring pustule at the base of the right nostril (). Further questioning revealed that the pustule used to heal spontaneously within 15 days of eruption and then again exuberated thereafter. A thorough medical history was taken which disclosed that the patient had been under treatment for 6 months from a private practitioner and was prescribed antibiotics as well as intralesional steroids for the constantly recurring pustule which did not yield any positive outcomes. Additionally, the patient was a chronic current and heavy smoker and used to smoke > 20 filtered cigarettes (1 pack) per day for 15 years making it a total of 15 (15 × 1) pack years. Dental history acknowledged that the propositor had a history of trauma to his upper front teeth, when he was in his late 20's, yet no pain, swelling, or any other associated symptom was reported. The propositor had also undergone multiple nugatory biopsies of the concerned lesion only to disclose no abnormality. On extraoral examination, a pustule was detected near the right nostril. Intraoral examination revealed an attrited, noncarious, and significantly discoloured maxillary right central incisor (tooth number 11), bearing prominent enamel cracks running in a coronoapical direction. Generalised attrition with a poor oral hygiene status was also evident by plaque scores and gingival index (). On suspecting the patient's nasal sinus tract to be of odontogenic origin, we went in for further investigations. Initially, the pulp vitality tests were performed with the help of heated gutta percha and the results were found to be negative for right maxillary central incisor indicating pulpal necrosis or dental abscess. Intraoral periapical (IOPA) radiograph showed distinct periapical radiolucency with compromised periodontal status in relation to tooth number 11 (). The above-