A 74-year-old man presented to the clinic with lower extremity edema and exertional dyspnea for several weeks. Past medical history was significant for five-vessel aortocoronary artery bypass graft surgery (CABG) done in 1989 and redo three-vessel CABG in 2002. He had multiple comorbidities with 37-pack-year history of smoking. Physical examination was significant for grade II/VI systolic murmur at second left intercostal space, mild pitting edema, and jugular venous distention. Initial labs were unremarkable. Electrocardiogram revealed old anterior infarct changes. Transthoracic echocardiogram revealed severe pulmonary artery stenosis with mean gradient of 44 mmHg and peak gradient of 76 mmHg secondary to extrinsic compression of pulmonary artery by a large extrinsic mass. Right ventricular hypertrophy along with reduction of systolic function was also noted. Left ventricular ejection fraction was also reduced (30–35%) with anterior wall akinesis. Computed tomography angiography (CTA) of the heart and coronary vessels revealed a 6.0 × 5.8 cm aneurysm () involving the first obtuse marginal SVG, which was compressing the pulmonary artery. Coronary angiography was performed, which revealed 100% occlusion of all the three native vessels. SVG angiography revealed a 7 × 7 cm giant aneurysmal dilatation in the SVG to the first obtuse marginal of the left circumflex artery, which appeared to contain a large organized thrombus ().
Cardiothoracic surgery service was consulted and they proposed excision of the aneurysmal vein graft and 2/3 vessel coronary artery bypass grafting using a radial artery and/or right internal mammary artery. Given his extensive comorbidities, previous cardiac surgeries, and significantly reduced left ventricular function, surgical therapy was felt to carry significantly increased risk of morbidity and mortality. Percutaneous intervention was also discussed, where exclusion of the aneurysm by insertion of a covered stent in the SVG across the neck of the aneurysm as well as possible stent implantation of the pulmonary artery would be performed. The aneurysm was followed up by repeat CTA scan