A 53-year-old woman, resident in Germany, was admitted to the emergency department because of confusion, aphasia and agitation. Her partner reported that she had complained about neck pain for a few weeks which had been interpreted as being related to a herniated cervical disk in an X-ray examination seven days ago and treated with analgesics. Furthermore, the patient had suffered from unspecific flu-like symptoms in the previous week and intermittent diarrhea during the previous two months. Her past medical history revealed a chronic obstructive pulmonary disease based on nicotine addiction, a chronic pain syndrome following repeated vertebral disk herniation, obesity, and appendectomy as well as surgical repair of an epigastric and umbilical hernia six years ago. Because of the chronic lumbar pain, she had been under long-term morphine treatment with suspicion of morphine addiction, but had not received intraspinal steroid/analgesics injections for several months.
On physical examination, she had a body temperature of 38.6 °C; pulse rate and blood pressure were within the normal range. In the examination of respiratory system, cardiovascular system, and abdomen, no abnormalities were detected. The neurological examination also showed no abnormalities, especially no meningism and no neurological deficits, apart from the confusion, aphasia and agitation. Laboratory analysis at admission (Table ) revealed a pronounced leukocytosis with an increase mainly in the neutrophil granulocytes, and a strongly elevated serum C-reactive protein level, indicating an infectious cause of the patient’s symptoms. Furthermore, a rise of lactate dehydrogenase, liver enzymes and cholestasis parameters, and a hyponatremia were observed. In the emergency department, a magnetic resonance tomography of the brain was performed, but demonstrated no abnormalities apart from first signs of a subcortical arteriosclerotic encephalopathy.
An immediate lumbar puncture was not successful because of the patient’s agitation, but was conducted on the second day of admission, when nuchal rigidity emerged. Because of strongly suspected bacterial meningitis, antimicrobial treatment with ceftriaxone (4 g daily in two divided doses) and