A 33-year-old female presented to the Emergency Department (ED) with a chief complaint of headache. The headache began three weeks before, shortly after she completed a normal spontaneous vaginal delivery without complication. During labor, she had one unsuccessful attempt at placing an epidural catheter; the second attempt was successful. She reported that, for the past three weeks, the headache was constant but varied in intensity. During her pregnancy, she was diagnosed with gestational diabetes mellitus, which was managed conservatively. She denied history of chronic headaches.
Earlier, she had presented to another ED twice for treatment of the headache. Her primary care physician had diagnosed this headache as sinusitis and had prescribed her amoxicillin and pseudoephedrine. Her outpatient physician ordered an MRI to definitively diagnose the sinusitis; a radiologist read the MRI and asked her to go to an ED without discussing the results with her.
Upon arrival in the ED, she rated the headache as 9/10. The headache was worsened by moving her head and relieved when lying supine. She described mild photophobia. She denied blurred vision, nausea, numbness, weakness, or vomiting. Her review of systems was negative except for left ear pain for a week. She had sustained a very mild head injury one week before when she lost her balance and hit her forehead on the door of the bathroom while rising from the toilet. She denied loss of consciousness and stated that the intensity of the headache did not change. She denied smoking, alcohol, drug use, and recent travel. She denied family history of bleeding disorders. She adamantly denied domestic violence.
On examination, her vital signs were normal. She was awake, alert, and oriented ×3 with normal mood, affect, and speech. Her physical exam including a detailed neurological examination was normal.
Her laboratory tests revealed no coagulopathy. Computed tomography (CT) of the head was performed as the MRI was not immediately available