A 55-year-old male presented to the emergency department with left lower limb painless swelling and redness which started gradually over two weeks prior to presentation. He stated that he usually does not stay immobilized for a long period of time and there was no recent history of immobilization or surgeries. He denies any trauma to his left lower limb. His medical background includes obstructive sleep apnea. He has never been a smoker and his family history was negative for thromboembolic events or other hematological disorders. On physical examination, there were swelling and redness in his left lower limb extending from the foot to the upper thigh. Warmth was also noted compared to the right lower limb. The rest of the physical exam was unremarkable, there was no evidence of injury or venous stasis.
Biochemical and haematological investigations were normal. Venous Doppler ultrasound showed DVT extending from the common femoral vein at the level of the left groin to the popliteal vein at the level of the knee and a second DVT in the deep profunda vein.
Giving the extent of the thrombosis, CT of the chest and abdomen was considered to rule out further extension of the clot or suspected malignancy. CT revealed absent infrarenal IVC () associated with multiple para-aortic collaterals and tortuous dilatation of the inferior mesenteric vein. It also confirmed the presence of acute thrombosis involving the left external iliac and left common and superficial femoral veins.
Treatment was started initially with therapeutic dose of Enoxaparin. After that, he was started on Warfarin and required life-long anticoagulation. Following daily measurement of the calf and thigh circumference, his DVT had resolved. After discharge, life-long Warfarin was continued and he was advised to use elastic stocking. No recurrence of DVT has occurred at three and six months of follow-up. Thrombophilia studies, including lupus anticoagulant, cardiolipin antibody, antithrombin III, antinuclear antibody, factor V Leiden, and prothrombin gene mutation, were normal. However, his proteins C and S activity was low