A 28-year-old, Jamaican female, gravida 7 para 3 presented to the clinic at 8-week gestation for her first prenatal visit. Her first pregnancy was complicated with uncontrolled hypertension resulting in a term primary cesarean delivery. Prior to this pregnancy she was normotensive. As this pregnancy occurred in Jamaica, medical records regarding the details of her care were not available. The indication for the cesarean delivery was not known to the patient. However, the patient reported that her blood pressure normalized after this delivery. This was followed by an uncomplicated pregnancy and repeat cesarean delivery at term three years later. Over the next three years, she had three elective terminations of pregnancy. A year thereafter, she had another pregnancy that was complicated by proteinuria and elevated blood pressure that resulted in a fetal demise at 29-week gestation. After delivery, her blood pressure normalized and she remained asymptomatic. The presumptive diagnosis by the medical team was early onset severe preeclampsia, and therefore no renal biopsy or subsequent workup was undertaken at the time.
A year after the last pregnancy she emigrated to the United States and presented to our clinic for prenatal care at 8-week gestation. She denied any medical problems and was not using any medications. She smoked one pack of cigarettes per day and denied the use of alcohol or other illicit drugs. Her initial blood pressure was 96/60 mmHg. Prenatal labs, initial complete blood count, and BUN and creatinine levels were normal ( and ).
At 12-week gestation, she returned to clinic for follow-up. Physical examination was positive for 1+ bilateral lower extremity edema. Her blood pressure was 102/64 mmHg. A baseline 24-hour urine collection revealed 5047 g of protein excretion. Subsequent workup with renal ultrasound, microscopic urine analysis, urine electrolytes, and a rheumatology panel consisting of anti-nuclear antibody (ANA), CRP, anti-double stranded DNA, anti-JO-1 antibody, Sjogren's antibody