A 63-year-old male complaining about a “wound in the mouth” was referred to Goiás Oral Medicine Center, Federal University of Goiás Dental School, Goiânia, Brasil, for diagnosis and treatment. The patient reported that the lesion had approximately 6 months of evolution and that he was asymptomatic and had not experienced any bleeding. His medical and dental history did not show any significance or any relation to his lesion. The patient had been a smoker for 33 years. Intraoral examination revealed a destructive ulcerative lesion around the upper left first and second molars, which showed mobility and poor dental conditions, including dental caries, gingival recession and bone loss (Fig. a). A panoramic radiograph revealed a radiolucent area in the periapical region of the upper left first molar, suggesting an osteolytic lesion (Fig. b). According to the clinical and radiographic features, the main diagnostic hypotheses were periodontal disease associated with oral squamous cell carcinoma. The patient reported that there was no cancer in his family history. The results of laboratory analyses, including blood and urine studies, were within the normal range. We also performed a biopsy to provide histopathological analysis. At this time, the patient took prescribed antibiotics for 7 days and underwent surgery of the upper left primary molar. Microscopic findings showed an inflammatory infiltrate rich in plasma cells that is commonly present in periodontal disease, without the presence of any atypical cell in this specimen of oral mucosa. Based on these findings, periodontal disease was considered as the diagnosis and the patient underwent periodontal therapy twice without remission of the initial injury. During follow-up, it was observed that the lesion increased considerably.
Since the lesion was increasing in size, a second biopsy was performed on a deeper level of histological plan. It showed a proliferation of cells resembling histiocytes with an occasional pale nucleus edentulous with a lobular, grain bean-like appearance (Fig. ). Microscopic findings and the presence of histiocytic cells