A previously healthy 64-year-old Sri Lankan man was admitted to the general medical unit because of progressive impairment of his memory regarding recent events that had occurred during the previous 3 weeks. The memory impairment was associated with irritability and confusion. He had been a smoker for 15 pack-years. Physical examination revealed no fever, and his Glasgow coma scale score was 12/15 with alternating irritability and drowsiness. His pupils were equal in size and reactive to light, and no significant neck stiffness was noted. Focal neurological signs were absent. The patient was not cooperative enough to conduct a proper mini-mental examination. His presentation was suggestive of delirium. Basic hematological investigations and renal and liver profiles were not suggestive of an extracranial cause.
Before performing lumbar puncture, we carried out noncontrast CT of the brain to exclude any pathology causing increased intracranial pressure. CT revealed a hyperdensity in the hypothalamic region surrounded by hypodensities extending toward the temporal lobes bilaterally; these findings were consistent with a possible hypothalamic tumor with perilesional edema (Fig. and ).
Electroencephalography showed generalized slowing that was maximal in the bitemporal regions. On the second day of admission, his serum biochemistry parameters became abnormal with a rising serum sodium level (>160 mEq/L) and normal serum potassium level. We noticed a significant increase in his urine output (average of 5.5 L/day) and lowering of his urine osmolality (190 mOsm/kg). Based on the hypovolemic hypernatremia and low urine osmolality associated with the radiological abnormalities in the hypothalamus, we suspected underlying cranial diabetes insipidus in this patient. He was treated with rehydration and intranasal desmopressin, to which he showed only a partial response. The patient was then transferred to the intensive care unit for close monitoring. Once the patient was stable, gadolinium-enhanced MRI of the brain and brain stem was carried out. The transverse section of the brain showed increased T2-weighted signals