An 80 year old man from the Tarai region of Nepal was brought to emergency with the chief complaint of falling from a swing after being pushed by his grandson 2 days prior. He complained of pain at the nape of his neck. The patient was neurologically intact. He was placed in a cervical collar and an urgent X-ray of the cervical spine revealed presence of spondylolysthesis of the axis with significant translation and angulation (
). Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the cervical spine revealed a type III hangman’s fracture with presence of pinching effect on the cord without any significant signal changes (
).
The patient was an ex-army serviceman and was in good health with good Karnofsky performance score
. There was no significant past medical or surgical illnesses. He had a habit of smoking marijuana previously. However, routine screening echocardiography revealed a cardiac ejection fraction of only 33%. Because the fracture was an unstable type III variant, the decision of surgical fixation was taken. The best option in such a situation would have been anterior cervical disectomy and Casper plate fixation thereby avoiding prolonged prone positioning. However such armamentarium for the procedure was not available with us. After explaining the disease condition, treatment options available and the risks involved, the patient was placed on minimal cervical traction so as to avoid the risk of iatrogenic hanging. We looked for the level of realignment that was possible with the guarded traction. Stringent care was taken to observe for features of over distraction. Repeat imaging showed good realignment and normal canal diameter. Therefore we decided to go for occipito-cervical fusion so as to minimize the anesthetic risk imposed to the patient from both anterior and posterior approaches. A DEXA scan for assessing bone density would have been justified prior to occipito-cervical fusion since such procedure would further lead to severe motion restriction in such an elderly spine.