Within minutes of undergoing a transvaginal ultrasound, a 41 year old female developed immediate intra and perivaginal pruritus and burning. These symptoms did not resolve with self-administered cetirizine. Over the course of several hours, the patient developed a progressive multisystem reaction including cutaneous flushing, dyspnea, cough, nasal congestion, and generalized urticaria. Severe local labial swelling and throat tightness prompted her to seek emergent care at a nearby hospital. At her initial triage assessment, vital signs were within normal limits, though diffuse urticaria without angioedema was noted. Management included intramuscular epinephrine followed by intravenous diphenhydramine, ranitidine, and corticosteroids for presumed anaphylaxis. Her symptoms subsequently abated and did not recur during or after her period of observation while at hospital. She was discharged home with a prescription for prednisone 40 mg daily for 4 days along with an epinephrine autoinjector, and was referred for further allergic evaluation.
Her past medical history was significant for cold urticaria and an ovarian cyst for which she had a prior resection and had been undergoing annual transvaginal screening examinations for the previous 18 years. She had a similar reaction 1 year prior that started with local vaginal pruritus which was later followed by periorbital and lingual swelling, urticaria, cough, and dyspnea. At that time, she had similarly presented to a local emergency department for acute management. She was a highly-active non-smoker, denied illicit drug use, and did not regularly consume alcohol. There was no personal or family history of atopy or autoimmunity. She was not taking any medications.
Allergy skin testing was performed by prick method to latex (low ammoniated natural rubber latex extract), as well as to samples provided by the patient from the non-latex condom that was used to cover the ultrasound probe and to the ultrasound gel used during the procedure. Additional testing was performed to the individual gel components which were obtained from the gel manufacturer (Chester Packaging, Cincinnati, OH). These included polyethylene