In 2013, a 47-year-old Native American man presented to his family doctor complaining of a three-month history of epigastric and right hypochondrial pain. His background medical history was only significant for obstructive sleep apnea. He denied any hepato-pancreato-biliary diseases. He was not taking any regular medications. He had no family history of cancer and was working as a firefighter. He drank 1-2 units of alcohol per day and was a former smoker of 20 pack years. The patient underwent an abdominal ultrasound (US) at his local hospital, which found a mass in his gallbladder. He was subsequently transferred to our tertiary cancer center to undergo further investigation and potential treatment planning. The patient’s baseline physical examination was unremarkable and his laboratory investigation only showed a mild microcytic anemia with normal hepatic function panel. Tumor markers, carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) and CA 19-9, were also within normal ranges. Further staging by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) was performed, which showed a nodular and contrast-enhancing mass of 47 mm x 58 mm x 72 mm, involving the posterolateral gallbladder and extending to the abdominal wall muscle and liver segments 4B and 6 (Figure ).
This was all suggestive of a malignant process. An ultrasound-guided biopsy was performed to pathologically identify the lesion; however, the resulting analysis was equivocal. The patient underwent a full workup with a computed tomography (CT) scan of the chest and upper and lower endoscopy, which did not reveal other abnormalities. After a multidisciplinary discussion, the patient was scheduled for a right trisegmentectomy with gallbladder resection. In preparation, the patient underwent a percutaneous embolization for right portal venous system without any complications. Upon exploration in the operating theatre, both hilum and hepatic artery lymph nodes were found to be positive for metastatic deposits; an intraoperative frozen section demonstrated extensive infiltrate by moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma consistent with gallbladder primary neoplasm. At the time of the surgery,