A 78 year-old woman complained of a gradually progressive gait abnormality, beginning with difficulty initiating steps after rising from a chair. Her symptoms progressed steadily over four years, to include shuffling during forward walking and FoG with both gait initiation and passage through doorways. She felt that her freezing was significantly improved by the use of a rolling walker. She noticed that her right leg tended to freeze more than the left, but denied resting tremor or stiffness. She also denied falls (including backward), other coordination difficulties, autonomic complaints, and numbness or weakness. Upper limb functioning was normal. A previous trial of levodopa (up to 800 mg daily) did not alleviate her symptoms. Medical history included non-insulin dependent diabetes mellitus, uncontrolled hyperlipidemia, and remote 3 pack-year cigarette exposure. She denied exposure to neuroleptics.
Examination revealed an oriented woman with normal language. Concentration was intact to complex backward spelling; executive function was intact to bedside Luria sequence testing. More detailed testing, however, revealed visuospatial and executive function deficits (clock drawing, box drawing, and Trails Part B), with a MOCA score of 22/30. Cranial nerves were normal. Tone and strength were normal. Resting tremor and bradykinesia were absent, including in the lower extremities. Proprioception was intact in the toes; coordination was normal. The right patellar reflex was brisk with crossed adduction; other reflexes were normal. Unassisted gait was wide based with freezing upon standing and prominent freezing with both straight walking and turning (see Additional file : video segment 1). The right foot was more affected by freezing with a pattern consisting of several small right steps with the right foot followed by one l step with the left. Walking with trekking poles resulted in dramatic improvement of gait and lessening of freezing (see Additional file : video segment 2). Despite significant gait impairments, standing balance in quiet stance was intact with normal