This is a case of 77-year-old male patient who presented for lower limbs edema and abdominal pain with diarrhea of 1-month duration.
The patient was an ex-smoker and nonalcoholic. His past surgical history included cholecystectomy and prostatectomy. His medical history was significant for hypertension controlled on Bisoprolol and Irbesartan, dyslipidemia treated with Atorvastatin, and a transient cerebral ischemic attack 5 months prior to presentation for which he was put on aspirin and clopidogrel. At that time, he was incidentally found to have peripheral eosinophilia of 1050 eos/mm3 (13.7% of total leukocytes) without going into further investigations. As family history, he had a brother diagnosed with Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma who died few months earlier after a prolonged hospitalization for unexplained dyspnea, attributed later on to a Strongyloides stercoralis infection detected in his bronchoalveolar lavage only one day before his death.
His history went back to 3 months prior to presentation when he was admitted to another hospital for dyspnea, cough, and high grade fever that started few days after inadvertent inhalation of pesticides while working in his garden. CT chest was done and showed bilateral patchy interstitial infiltrates suspicious of allergic pneumonitis (). Bronchoscopy was also done and showed normal bronchial mucosa. Bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) analysis showed an inflammatory smear and the culture detected few Alcaligenes spp. Blood culture was negative. So patient was considered having pulmonary infection on top of allergic pneumonitis and was discharged home on levofloxacin and prednisone 1 mg/kg for 1 week to be tapered down over 3 weeks thereafter. Although his dyspnea and chest infiltrates were improving during steroids tapering, our patient developed severe diffuse pruritic skin rash that persisted for about 10 days and he started experiencing a progressively increasing epigastric discomfort associated with diarrhea. In addition, he noted an increasing bilateral lower limbs edema. After stopping steroids, his skin rash disappeared but without improvement of other symptoms.
His diarrhea was watery and nonm