A 19-year-old previously healthy Hispanic female presented with chief complaint of progressively worsening shortness of breath and heart palpitations for 1 week. She had previously recently been evaluated at an outside hospital without imaging and was diagnosed with gastritis, then discharged home. Prior medical history was positive for childhood asthma and removal of a lipoma from her right flank. There was no family history of heart disease, but she did note a paternal aunt with a history of unspecified mediastinal cancer. The patient emigrated to the United States from Mexico 2 years ago and had visited Mexico 2 months prior to presentation. She had never been pregnant and was not sexually active. She denied smoking, alcohol or drug use. On presentation, her vital signs were blood pressure 128/84, pulse 111 beats per minute, respiration rate 12 breaths per minute, and oxygen saturation 100% on room air. She appeared comfortable. Cardiovascular exam revealed normal rate and rhythm, grade 1 mid-frequency ejection murmur at left upper sternal border, normal upper extremity pulses and decreased lower extremity pulses. Blood pressure of right arm was 140/88, left arm was 136/90, right leg was 105/67 and left leg was 82/58. The remainder of the physical exam was normal.
Chest X-ray showed a right peri-hilar mass with some tracheal compression (). Computed tomography (CT) scan revealed a 1.2 × 1.1 cm mass in the right hilar region with associated diffuse mediastinal lymphadenopathy (). A previously undiagnosed severe isthmic coarctation of the aorta was noted immediately distal to the origin of the left subclavian artery with surrounding collateral arteries. Coarctation was confirmed with echocardiogram that showed peak gradient around 40 mm Hg. Systolic function was normal. Initial imaging was suspicious for malignancy or infectious process. There was concern that the coarctation may be related to the mediastinal process. Initial bronchoscopy with bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) and fine-needle aspiration (FNA) were non-diagnostic. Subsequent end