A 56-year-old man with a history of non-insulin dependent diabetes mellitus was referred to the surgical department because of the onset of lower back pain and hematuria that occurred the previous day. The patient was not a smoker and denied alcohol consumption; his family history was unremarkable and there was no other complaint. The ultrasound of the left kidney revealed the presence of stones in the renal pelvis causing obstruction of the ureteral meatus and consequent dilatation of the upper calix. During the examination, the presence of a solid neoplasm was noticed that involved the renal medulla reaching the hilum area without signs of hilar infiltration. For further investigations, the patient underwent CT (computed tomography) and MR (magnetic resonance) that showed the slight enhancement and extensive necrotic areas of the lesion and the existence of a solid nodule with same features in the left lung, likely due to metastases (Figs. a-b). A lombotomic total nephrectomy was performed, and the patient had an uneventful post-operative recovery.
Grossly, the kidney presented irregular profile due to a hilar lesion measuring 4 cm × 2.5 cm. On cut sections, it was highly hemorrhagic, soft, and reddish with infiltrating borders (Figs. c-d). The tumor was extensively sampled. Microscopic examination was performed on paraffin-embedded sections stained with hematoxylin and eosin (Figs. and ). Histopathological examination showed a proliferation of canalicular structures of various sizes, sometimes with some degree of cystic changes, lined by atypical cells with epithelioid features, deeply invading the renal parenchyma and the perinephric fat. Many of these structures contained red blood cells giving the idea that it was a vascular lesion. In some fields was observed an almost solid growth pattern with erythrocytes trapped in thin spaces between neoplastic cells. Marked cellular pleomorphism, enlarged and hyperchromic nuclei, irregular nuclear contour, prominent nucleoli, and frequent mitotic figures were also evident. In the context of this lesion, few fields