A 55-year-old male patient complained of dysphasia for 4 weeks and continuous deterioration for 5 days. The patient had a history of ischemic stroke (Fig. , ), which manifested as right limb numbness and amaurosis 1 year ago. He had a history of hypertension for 10 years, a myocardial infarction 3 years ago, and cigarette smoking for 40 years, but no history of diabetes, hyperlipidemia, and alcohol consumption. The patient exhibited a disorder of linguistic expression and long-term memory impairment without a limb motor disorder. Cranial MRI confirmed an ischemic stroke at a local hospital (Fig. , ). The symptoms were relieved after medical treatment. The dysphasia relapsed 5 days before admission. Cranial computed tomography (CT) showed a hypodense lesion in the left temporal and occipital lobes (Fig. ). Cerebral infarction was considered based on serial cranial MRI, which showed hyperintensity at the internal border zone and the border zone between the left temporal and occipital lobes, and Doppler ultrasound revealed severe left carotid artery stenosis. The patient was transferred to our stroke center for further treatment. At the time of admission, the vital signs were normal. A neurologic examination showed mild dysphasia, normal cranial nerves, normal limb motor function, and negative Babinski signs bilaterally. CT perfusion imaging showed mild ischemic in the territory of the left middle cerebral artery (Fig. ). Cervical computed tomography angiography (CTA) confirmed the first segment of the carotid artery with severe stenosis (Fig. ). An electrocardiogram revealed an abnormal Q-wave involving the inferior wall, which was consistent with an inferior myocardial infarction. Homocysteine (35.3 μmol/L) and the following laboratory investigations were normal: triglycerides, total cholesterol, low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, antinuclear antibodies, anti-neutrophil cytoplasmic antibodies, prothrombin time, and tumor markers. The patient was given medical treatment consisting of aspirin (100 mg per day), clopidogrel (75 mg), and atorvastatin (20 mg). The patient received combined anti-