An 89-year-old lady presented with a one-day history of acute shortness of breath, as well as a cough productive of brown sputum. Her past medical history was significant for chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, ischaemic heart disease, hypertension, hypothyroidism, and previous breast cancer in 2012, for which she remained on hormonal treatment. She lived with her daughter in a house with a full package of care. However her exercise tolerance was limited to only ten yards with a walking frame, which meant she was confined to downstairs living. She denied ever smoking and drank alcohol within the recommended limits. There was no history within the family of any particular illnesses.
On arrival to accident and emergency she was clearly in respiratory distress. Her observations were as follows: respiratory rate 40, oxygen saturation of 80% on room air, heart rate 130, blood pressure 200/90, and temperature 39.1 degrees Celsius.
On examination there was bronchial breathing with widespread crepitations and wheeze with nil else of significance noted on the initial examination.
An arterial blood gas revealed severe type one respiratory failure and blood tests were indicative of an acute inflammatory response with associated acute kidney injury. This lady was initially treated with intravenous benzylpenicillin and clarithromycin as per trust policy for an exacerbation of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, as well as being supported with oxygen, intravenous fluids, steroids, and nebulisers. She was acutely unwell and had shown little response after 24 hours. As a result, it was felt that she was unlikely to survive this episode—both the patient and family were informed and the patient was placed on the supportive care pathway with a decision being made not to attempt cardiopulmonary resuscitation and for ward based management only. In the meantime her antibiotics were continued but switched to piperacillin/tazobactam (Tazocin).
She slowly began to respond to treatment and her oxygen requirements were reducing. During the second day of admission the ward received