A 52-year-old man presented with a 6-week history of hematospermia, describing his ejaculate as brown in color. There was no history of trauma, and the patient denied any hematuria. On further questioning he reported a 3-month history of increasing difficulty with urination, which was often relieved after defecation. He had been concurrently experiencing constipation with decreased stool caliber. The patient had a past medical history of type II diabetes mellitus, fatty liver disease, arthritis, and seasonal allergies. He was a lifetime nonuser of tobacco products and reported rare recreational marijuana use. On rectal examination a firm, polypoid mass was palpated in the rectal vault with gross blood noted upon completion. The remainder of the examination was unremarkable. He was referred to gastroenterology for a colonoscopy and a CT scan was ordered. This demonstrated a large, lobular soft tissue mass in the lower central pelvis encasing the rectum and involving the posterior margin of the prostate (). The mass extended cephalad to involve the distal left ureter, resulting in moderate hydronephrosis (). There was left pelvic sidewall lymphadenopathy as well. Colonoscopy revealed edematous and erythematous folds causing rectal narrowing with small areas of ulceration and exudates, despite having a normal colonoscopy two years prior. Multiple biopsies were taken at the anorectal junction and pathology was consistent with high-grade TCC of the colonic epithelium (). There was question of primary colonic TCC versus primary bladder carcinoma with secondary colonic involvement; however cystoscopy revealed normal anatomy and no evidence of primary bladder neoplasm.
With the most likely diagnosis of transitional cell cloacogenic carcinoma of the anorectal verge, the patient underwent treatment with gemcitabine and cisplatin administered every 21 days, similar to the traditional treatment for TCC of the bladder [–]. Restaging studies showed tumor regression and no development of metastatic disease. He is currently receiving 5-fluorouracil and mitomycin concomitant with radiation therapy given effectiveness in TCC [].