A 50-year-old female with a history of smoking and hypertension developed the acute onset of left upper extremity paresthesias and weakness lasting approximately 1 to 5 minutes with jaw numbness for another 5 minutes. All her symptoms resolved by the time she arrived at the hospital, and she was normotensive with no neurologic deficits on examination. A CT scan obtained in the emergency room showed a small chronic cortical insult of the ipsilateral temporal lobe, which was presumed to be unrelated. MRI of the brain showed no acute ischemia. MRA of the head and neck was then obtained and showed an anomalous anastomosis of the right vertebral artery to the internal carotid artery segment 2.0 cm distal to the right common carotid artery bifurcation (Figure ). Formal digital subtraction angiography confirmed this anatomic variant originating from the right internal carotid and terminating as the basilar artery. Injection of the right, internal carotid thus demonstrated filling of the entire right hemisphere and posterior circulation (except the posterior inferior cerebellar artery (PICA)) from the right internal carotid. The absence of posterior communicating arterial flow was noted bilaterally. The vertebral arteries terminated at the PICA bilaterally. Just proximal to the ICA-PPHA bifurcation, there was a 1.3 cm length of plaque resulting in greater than 60% diameter stenosis (Figures -). Given the clinical implications of atheroembolic disease affecting the only supply to the patient's brainstem and the technical difficulty of surgical endarterectomy with difficult anatomy, the patient was entered into the treatment arm of the SAMMPRIS trial and underwent endovascular stenting. After placement of a SpiderFx™ embolic protection device into the PPHA, a 7 x 10 x 40 mm Protege stent was deployed successfully across the stenotic segment and resulted in complete restoration of luminal diameter without the need for angioplasty (Figure ). The patient tolerated the procedure well, was maintained on antithrombotics, and incurred no further ischemic symptoms in long-term follow up with the last angiogram one-year post-treatment