A 64-year-old woman, with a history of double vessel coronary bypass surgery (CABG) in 1998, presented with five months of increasingly frequent exertional chest tightness and dyspnea. In 1998, the patient presented similarly with a few months' history of exertional chest heaviness, dyspnea, and jaw numbness. After a positive treadmill stress test demonstrating ST depressions, diagnostic coronary angiography was complicated by severe hypotension immediately upon catheter engagement of the left main artery, with blood pressure falling to less than 50 systolic and accompanied by severe chest pain. Limited angiographic images obtained demonstrated an 80% left main stenosis, with angiographically normal vessels in the remainder of the coronary tree. The patient was kept in hospital and sent for double vessel CABG, receiving a left internal thoracic artery (LITA) graft to LAD and saphenous vein graft to obtuse marginal. Since 1998, the patient had been relatively asymptomatic up until five months prior to current presentation.
Her current symptoms were similar, though not identical to her initial presentation in 1998, but they were still provoked by activity and relieved with nitroglycerin spray and rest. She also reported a significant decrease in energy and her usual activities were limited due to exertional dyspnea. Review of systems was otherwise noncontributory. Notably, she was an active user of tobacco, smoking half a pack a day for the past ten years, was a social drinker, and had a mother who died from a heart attack in her early 60s. Her medical history was significant for gastroesophageal reflux, hypertension, dyslipidemia, and hypothyroidism. Her medications included atenolol, ezetimibe, rosuvastatin, paroxetine, and l-thyroxine. She had also recently been placed on topical nitrate patch. Her new-onset symptoms prompted a referral for repeat coronary and graft angiography, and possible percutaneous intervention if appropriate. Based on her cardiovascular history and current suggestive symptoms, stress testing was decided against, due to her high pretest probability of having ischemic disease.
P