A 31-year-old female with a history of developmental dysplasia of the left hip presented with chronic pain in the left hip and knee. She was a smoker and her BMI was 17.3 kg/m2. During childhood, she had undergone several procedures to the hip including a Salter osteotomy. Radiographic evaluation demonstrated a lateral center edge angle (CEA) of 18° and an anterior CEA of 5° (). Arthro-CT showed an intact cartilage layer and an MRI of the knee was normal. She was initially treated with intra-articular corticoid injections with short-term benefit. However, after 2 years of conservative treatment, it was decided to perform a Ganz PAO to improve acetabular coverage. The surgery was performed under general anesthesia and patient controlled epidural analgesia was prescribed for postoperative pain control. The patient received a transfusion with 2 units of packed red cells because of postoperative anemia. Immediately after surgery, she suffered from hypoesthesia in the groin and mild adductor weakness due to neurapraxia of the obturator nerve. Clinical control at 3 months showed improvement of the obturator nerve neurapraxia and a normal function of the femoral and sciatic nerve. Radiographs demonstrated healing of the osteotomy sites and a normal CEA (). Electromyography revealed signs of ongoing reinnervation in the obturator nerve distribution and a reduced contraction pattern in the femoral and sciatic nerve musculature. Full weight bearing was allowed and physiotherapy was continued. However, at 6 months postoperatively, she complained of increasing pain and weakness in the left leg and the inability to walk without support. Clinical examination demonstrated weakness of ankle and knee flexion and extension, significant atrophy of the quadriceps muscle, and a colder and blue discolored left leg. Straight leg raise was impossible and there was still remaining hypoesthesia in the groin. Electrophysiological studies revealed severe damage to the obturator nerve, the femoral nerve, and the sciatic nerve consistent with an inflammatory postsurgical lumbosacral plexopathy. MRI