Mrs. E was a 57-year-old lady with a 12-year history of COPD, with an FEV1 of 30 %. Furthermore, she had a past medical history of carcinoma of the breast, type 2 diabetes mellitus and left ventricular failure (LVF), which was diagnosed on an echocardiogram (ECHO) in July 2014. Despite a diagnosis of COPD she continued to smoke 20–30 cigarettes/day.
She was prescribed a number of medications to help manage her airways disease including tiotropium, seretide 500, salbutamol, prednisolone and most recently oral theophyline (450 mg twice daily), which was started in April 2013 as an adjunct to her current medications.
She was admitted in June 2015 following a fall with notable decreased sensation bilaterally in her lower limbs and a tachycardia of 133 beats per minute. Spinal cord compression was an initial concern, however this was excluded with a magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) spine. There was no change to her theophylline prescription on admission to hospital and no new medication was prescribed that would affect theophylline metabolism.
Over several days additional symptoms were noted, including worsening nausea, blurred vision, increasing fatigue (with stable blood sugars) and worsening speech with slurring of words. Development of vomiting resulted in a decision to measure her theophylline concentration and perform a CT head, as no obvious cause for her symptoms had been elicited. The CT head was reported as clear of any ischaemia, haemorrhage or space-occupying lesion.
The trough theophylline concentration was 59.3 mg/l. The last result obtained in July 2014 during an admission for influenza related infective exacerbation of COPD was reported as 20.2 mg/l, marginally above the 10-20 mg/l recommended reference range. The concentration was then not re-checked either in primary care or in hospital; it therefore became apparent this was a case of chronic theophylline toxicity.
The medical team at The National Poisons Information Service was contacted for advice on management