A 34-year-old man with a history of recurrent epistaxis presented with a sudden fall associated with seizure-like activity. He was brought to our trauma center and was found to have a large subdural hematoma. The patient did not have any medical history except for intermittent nosebleeds since childhood. He smoked a pack of cigarettes daily, drank alcoholic beverages socially, and used marijuana. Family history revealed that his twin brother also suffered from nosebleeds, and the patient’s mother had a transient ischemic attack of unknown etiology at the age of 32.
On admission, vital signs were significant for a heart rate of 47 beats per minute and a respiratory rate of 40 breaths per minute with a Glasgow Coma Scale (GCS) score of 6. The patient was immediately intubated. He had a fixed, dilated 7-mm right pupil on examination. Preliminary blood work showed an elevated total leukocyte count (12 × 109/L) with an otherwise normal complete blood count and coagulation profile. A blood ethanol level was markedly elevated at 56.88 mmol/L. A computed tomography (CT) scan of the head revealed a large, right subdural hematoma with 1.6-mm leftward midline shift, uncal herniation, and obstructive hydrocephalus. Emergent craniotomy with evacuation of the subdural hematoma was performed. Subsequently, a brain CT venogram demonstrated 3 sites of nonocclusive thrombus within the superior sagittal sinus and the right transverse sinus. There were no cerebral arteriovenous malformations identified on imaging.
Incidentally, trauma imaging showed a serpiginous focus within the right upper lobe with a prominent feeding artery and vein arising from the pulmonary artery and pulmonary veins, respectively, consistent with a pulmonary arteriovenous malformation (PAVM; ). The feeding artery measured 2.9 mm in diameter (). The patient did not have any hemoptysis or cyanosis. The trauma imaging protocol at our institution consists of a CT head without contrast and a CT chest, abdomen, and pelvis with contrast using a 64