Our patient was a 76-year-old Caucasian Australian woman who originally presented over 5 years ago with urinary symptoms initially suggestive of recurrent urinary tract infection. At that time, she had an unremarkable past medical history of mild hypertension with no previous hospitalizations and did not smoke cigarettes. She underwent a work-up for the ongoing dysuria and urgency symptoms and imaging demonstrated a high-density retroperitoneal tumor with some fat density around her right inguinal canal. This tumor was surgically resected. On gross examination, the retroperitoneal tumor was 10 cm in diameter with a lobulated contour and a pale whorled cut surface reminiscent of uterine leiomyoma. On histological examination, there was widespread, dense fibrosis, with a variable chronic inflammatory infiltrate rich in plasma cells that was most prominent at the periphery of the tumor (Fig. ). The tumor was hypocellular and densely fibrotic, composed predominantly of bland stromal cells with morphology suggestive of fibroblasts (Fig. , ). Very occasional mildly atypical larger cells were noted and some were vacuolated (Fig. , ), but no diagnostic lipoblasts were identified. The fat from her right inguinal canal was composed of mature adipose tissue with extensive fat necrosis. Again, no lipoblasts were identified. Immunohistochemistry demonstrated that the tumor was negative for S100, CD34, cKit, desmin, and anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK), and there was no increase in immunoglobulin (Ig)G4-positive plasma cells. Although there was some uncertainty, the retroperitoneal tumor was diagnosed as an inflammatory pseudotumor in fibrosing stage (IgG4-negative variant). The area of fat necrosis in her right inguinal canal was considered benign.
Our patient re-presented 5 years later with similar urinary symptoms and imaging demonstrated a retroperitoneal tumor at the site of the previous excision. She underwent en block excision with a right hemicolectomy. The excised tumor was centered in the deep mesocolon. Again the tumor was lobulated and 10 cm in diameter with a somewhat pale fleshy cut