The patient was a 52-year-old female that presented with progressive cough and dyspnea for 8 weeks. Her medical history was unremarkable; she did not suffer from chronic disease. She had never smoked and had no known allergies or exposure to toxics. She had no family history suggestive of telomere syndromes or lung disease and she had two healthy daughters. She was admitted to a general hospital, where she was diagnosed with IPF based on high-resolution computed tomography scan and open lung biopsy findings. Simultaneously, laboratory analysis revealed that she had severe panhypogammaglobulinemia (IgM 0.32 g/L; IgA < 0.1 g/L; and IgG 2.2 g/L), and she was given the diagnosis common variable immunodeficiency (CVID). There were no clinical features suggestive of telomere disease or autoimmune disease. The patient had no history of recurrent infections. Bronchoalveolar lavage fluid showed no lymphocytosis or other abnormalities, and antinuclear antibody and anti-neutrophil cytoplasmic antibody tests were negative. She was started on oral corticosteroid treatment for her pulmonary fibrosis (as was common practice at the time) and gammaglobulin replacement therapy, both of which she would receive during her entire course of disease.
Her situation was relatively stable for 48 months, and she showed no signs of infections. When she became progressively dyspnoic, she was screened for lung transplantation. Because there were no contraindications for lung transplantation, she was placed on the waiting list 65 months after diagnosis. Unfortunately, a donor was not available in time and she passed away 71 months after diagnosis at the age of 58. As this all occurred a decade ago, we have retrospectively reviewed the case based on current guidelines [] in our multidisciplinary interstitial lung diseases team. Based on pathological and radiological findings, and in the absence of features suggestive of other diagnoses, our patient can be classified as a case of possible IPF (). There was multidisciplinary consensus on the clinical diagnosis of IPF, additionally supported by