A 47-year-old right hand dominant male working as a stable hand presented to the emergency department of a tertiary trauma and orthopedic referral center following a crush injury to the left hand. The injury had occurred while the patient had been assisting a friend to park a 4 × 4 vehicle. The vehicle had been reversing slowly towards a wall with the patient's hand behind the vehicle. The mechanism of injury suggested axial loading of the thumb between the vehicle and the wall. He presented directly to the emergency department with severe pain, swelling, and an obvious deformity at the wrist. The patient had no background medical or surgical history of note and reported no previous injuries to the affected limb. He was an active smoker of 30 cigarettes per day.
On examination in the emergency department, he had significant pain and swelling in the left wrist and forearm. There was a superficial abrasion over the dorsal aspect of the affected hand; however, this was considered to be a closed injury. There was significant tenderness over the carpals, particularly at the trapezium, with associated reduced range of motion at the wrist and thumb. There was no neurovascular compromise or associated tendon injury.
The AP radiograph reveals disruption of the continuation of arc I between the proximal border of the triquetrum and the proximal border of the trapezium, with the trapezium displaced in a radial direction (). This represents a volar dislocation of the trapezium. There was no associated fracture of the trapezium or any other associated bony injuries.
The patient subsequently underwent closed manipulation under general anesthesia. The surgeon achieved anatomical reduction by gripping the patient's thumb in one hand and applying a distracting force, while simultaneously applying pressure on the radial aspect of the trapezium with the thumb of the surgeon's other hand. The trapezium was stabilized with three 1.6 mm Kirschner wires percutaneously inserted from the radial side. One wire passed from trapezium to scaphoid, one wire passed from trapezium to capitate