A 30-year-old critically ill female with past medical history significant for tobacco use presented to our institution from an outside hospital after failure to wean from cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) after a two-vessel CABG for management of spontaneous coronary artery dissection. She initially presented nine days after an uncomplicated cesarean delivery to the outside facility with complaints of chest pain. Work-up at that time revealed an ST segment elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI) and the patient was emergently taken to the cardiac catheterization lab for left heart catheterization (LHC). She was found to have dissection of the Right Coronary Artery (RCA) and left anterior descending (LAD) coronary artery. Multiple drug-eluting stents were placed and she was discharged home on aspirin, Plavix, and metoprolol. The patient presented again 7 days later with complaints of recurrent chest pain. Repeat LHC revealed a large dissection from the mid left main (LM) to the ostial circumflex (LCX) arteries with patency of the prior stented vessels. At that time she was taken for emergent coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) of saphenous vein to LAD and saphenous vein to circumflex.
The intraoperative course was relatively uncomplicated until it was evident that she could not be weaned from CPB despite maximum vasopressor and inotropic support. Intraoperative transesophageal echocardiogram (TEE) demonstrated severe biventricular dysfunction. Subsequently, our institution was consulted to convert the patient to central VA-ECMO. This was completed via the preexisting aortic and a two-stage right atrial cannula placed for CPB. She was maintained on multiple inotropic agents and transported by the team to our facility for a higher level of care. An attempt to transition to peripherally cannulated VA-ECMO via the right femoral artery and vein was unsuccessful secondary to severely limited flow related to grossly visible dissection in the proximal common femoral artery. This defect was immediately addressed with the assistance of the vascular surgeon who reestablished antegrade flow with Fogarty thrombectomy and repaired the arteriotomy site