A 50-year-old man came to the emergency department complaining of sudden onset shortness of breath and choking sensation. Symptoms started a few minutes after smoking a synthetic marijuana joint. The patient also stated that he has been coughing with yellow mucus sometimes tinged with blood streaks for five days prior to presentation. However, he denied any chest pain, diaphoresis, or dizziness.
Patient's past medical history was significant for mild systolic dysfunction, hypertension, and residual right sided hemiparesis and rigidity following motor vehicle accident many years ago. He denies any history of heart attacks in the past and was never diagnosed with atherosclerotic coronary vascular disease. The patient stated that he has been smoking one pack of cigarettes a day for 35 years and admitted to smoking natural marijuana for recreation occasionally. The patient stated that, on the day of presentation, he tried to smoke a synthetic marijuana joint for the first time. The patient was prescribed angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor by his primary doctor, but it was unclear whether he was on any beta-blockers.
Vital signs on admission were stable except for an elevated heart rate ranging between 100 and 110 beats per minute. Physical exams demonstrated bilateral rales mainly basal and more on the right side. Mild expiratory rhonchi were also noted on both lung fields. Laboratory findings were significant for elevated pronatriuretic peptide (5207 pg/ml) and mild leukocytosis (17.7 K/μl). Other laboratory tests including thyroid function tests, three sets of cardiac enzymes, and screening urine toxicology were all normal.
ECG on admission showed sinus tachycardia with premature ventricular contractions (PVCs), left atrial enlargement, and left ventricular hypertrophy with prolonged QTc (488 msec). ST and T wave nonspecific changes were also noted on the lateral leads of ECG ().
Chest X-ray revealed pulmonary venous congestion associated with bilateral pleural effusions. Computed tomography (CT) of the chest with contrast was diagnostic of cardiogenic pulmonary edema and the patient