A 62-year-old female was admitted to our otolaryngology department with the complaint of hoarseness and a firm swelling right neck mass 3 months ago. In her past medical history, she had hypothyroidism and diabetes insipidus (DI) being treated with levothyroxine tablet 0.1 mg daily and desmopressin spray, one puff every 6 hours, respectively. She was also receiving propranolol tablet 20 mg daily and atorvastatin tablet 20 mg every night. The MRI of pituitary gland reported partially empty sella with a flattened pituitary gland. Her previous medical history was otherwise unremarkable; specifically, there had been no earlier laryngeal disease or signs of upper airway obstruction. She had no history of aspiration or previous intubation. There was no significant finding in her family or habitual history. She was not a smoker and had no history of voice abuse.
Physical examination showed a 5∗5 cm supraglottic mass with extension to the pharynx. Direct laryngoscopy revealed a hypopharyngeal mass with normal epithelium, while the movement of true vocal cords could not be assessed. The physical examination of other organs was otherwise normal. The fine needle aspiration (FNA) cytology from the right neck laryngeal mass showed hypercellular smears composed of some dissociated atypical cells with large pleomorphic nuclei and high nucleus-to-cytoplasm (N/C) ratio mixed with acute inflammatory cells in a necrotic background. Reactive lymphoid tissue lined by partially atrophied squamous epithelium was reported in addition to some atypical large lymphocytes invading epithelium, suggesting lymphoepithelial lesion with extensive necrosis. shows the stroboscopic view of the lesion and cervical CT-scan of the laryngeal mass is shown in Figures –. The incisional biopsy of the right cervical mass was done with a macroscopic feature of a creamy soft tissue. Sections showed neoplastic tissue composed of large mononuclear and few multinuclear cells sheets admixed with eosinophils, which infiltrated muscle bundles on microscopic evaluations. Tumor cells had irregular nuclei with prominent grooves, folds,