A 73-year-old man was diagnosed with T1a melanoma arising from the right shoulder in 2009. He underwent a wide excision and sentinel lymph node biopsy. Pathology review revealed a 1.64 mm melanoma, anatomic level deep III/early IV, no ulceration, 1 mitosis/mm2. Four right axillary sentinel lymph nodes were negative for involvement with melanoma. In September 2013, after experiencing hematuria, the patient underwent a cystoscopy followed by transurethral resection of a bladder tumor (TURBT), which revealed a low-grade urothelial carcinoma with no evidence of bladder invasion. He is a lifelong non-smoker. A staging computerized tomography (CT) scan revealed two right lower lobe lung nodules (2.7 cm and <1 cm), and a 6.3 cm tumor in the left kidney. A positron emission tomography computerized tomography (PET/CT) in November 2013 (Fig. ) showed enlarged mediastinal lymph nodes in addition to FDG uptake in the lung nodules and a complex left kidney mass. A mass in the thoracic spine (T3 vertebra) and a small focus of uptake in the right sacral ala were also noted (Fig. ). A biopsy of the T3 vertebral lesion was performed and pathologic review demonstrated RCC. A core needle biopsy of one of the right lower lobe lung nodules was also performed and unexpectedly revealed recurrent metastatic melanoma (Fig. ). In December 2013, a brain MRI showed a subcentimeter left temporal metastasis. The patient received radiation to the T3 vertebral metastasis and stereotactic radiosurgery to the brain metastasis.
While weighing the treatment options for these two cancers, although our initial thoughts were to focus on the more aggressive melanoma (BRAF and NRAS wild type), we were motivated to design a therapy regimen that could yield efficacious responses against both cancers. Bevacizumab, the anti-Vascular Endothelial Derived Growth Factor (VEGF) directed monoclonal antibody approved for use in renal cell carcinoma, has some efficacy in advanced melanoma and was found to be safe and potentially synergistic with