A 15-year-old African American male was referred for pediatric gastroenterology evaluation with over 1 year of worsening recurrent exercise-induced abdominal pain, nausea, and vomiting. He was an active athlete and reported that, exclusively during periods of strenuous physical exertion, he would develop severe multifocal abdominal pain. His pain was followed by nausea and emesis, which would persist through the day. He previously sought treatment and had no symptomatic improvement with ranitidine, omeprazole, and aggressive hydration with physical activity. One year prior to presentation, he was prescribed once daily omeprazole for presumed gastritis. He reported intermittent compliance throughout the year with this medication regimen, but relied primarily on activity reduction for symptom management. No laboratory studies were evaluated prior to this medication prescription. One month prior to presentation, his primary care provider drew a complete blood cell count, basic metabolic panel, and iron studies, which revealed no electrolyte disturbances and a mild microcytic anemia; so, ferrous sulfate supplementation was initiated and omeprazole was represcribed. No magnesium studies were evaluated at that time. At the time of presentation, his review of systems was positive for headaches, sometimes associated with emesis, fatigue, night sweats, and constipation. He denied any muscle cramps, tetany, light-headedness, syncope, palpitations, convulsions, diarrhea, hematochezia, or weight loss. He denied any recent tobacco, alcohol, or drug use. His parents denied any family history of neurological diseases, myopathies, metabolic diseases, or genetic syndromes.
Physical exam was significant for an elevated blood pressure of 138/83 mm Hg and a rectal exam with a large hard stool in the rectum and negative fecal occult blood test. An abdominal film showed mild stool retention. A metabolic panel with magnesium was ordered and the patient was released home with instructions for treatment of constipation and close follow-up with test results. Later that day, the provider received laboratory notification of a critically low serum magnesium level of 0.