A 60-year-old man presented with a 1-month history of progressively worsening discomfort during swallowing. His medical history included treated gastric cancer (5 years earlier) and emphysema. The patient reported that he had smoked approximately 20 cigarettes per day since the age of 20. Laboratory tests did not detect hepatic disorders or renal problems. Upper gastrointestinal endoscopy revealed an ulcerative lesion with elevated distinct borders in the lower esophagus, and endoscopic ultrasound detected serosal invasion. The lesion was diagnosed as a squamous cell carcinoma from a biopsy. A positron emission tomography (PET) examination confirmed lung metastasis. As a result, the patient was clinically staged as cT3N1M1 and was treated with 5-FU and cisplatin. However, his obstructive swallowing problems continued to worsen. We next administered concurrent radiotherapy as a palliative treatment. The treatment regimen (FP regimen) consisted of 5-FU at a dose of 800 mg/m2 on days 1–5 and cisplatin at a dose of 80 mg/m2 on day 1 and was repeated every 28 days. The patient did not exhibit specific adverse effects during the first course of treatment. After the completion of that, a second course of the same regimen was started. However, the patient fell unconscious 72 hours after the initiation of treatment.
On physical examination, he was unconscious (Glasgow Coma Scale: E1V3M5) and afebrile and had a pulse rate of 69 bpm and a blood pressure of 111/61 mmHg. There were no signs of mucositis. A neurological examination did not detect paralysis or abnormal reflexes. The patient's laboratory data revealed hyperammonemia, mild hyponatremia, and a high blood urea nitrogen (BUN) level. Other findings are shown in . Radiological assessments including computed tomography (CT) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scans of the patient's head did not detect any apparent cause of the patient's condition. On the following day, his condition normalized with only normal saline hydration, and he did not exhibit