A 69-year-old man with a history of smoking and alcohol consumption was referred to otolaryngology complaining of hoarseness for almost one year. Full head and neck examination was performed including flexible laryngoscopy revealing a mass emanating from the left supraglottic part of larynx without erosion or haemorrhage and a lesion of the true right vocal cold presenting as leukoplakia (). Bilateral vocal cord mobility was normal. Computerised Tomography(CT) of the neck and chest were normal without any lymph nodes or distant metastases. Furthermore laboratory tests, chest x-ray, and abdominal ultrasonography were also normal. There was no previous history of radiotherapy to the neck. Microlaryngoscopy and biopsy were performed (). Histopathological analysis demonstrated a double malignancy in the left supraglottic lesion, i.e. a moderately differentiated SCC and MFH. Sections stained with haematoxylin and eosin from the mass of the left supraglottic area showed a biphasic neoplasm composed of two populations in close relation, which covered at least focally by stratified squamous epithelium, with mild to moderate dysplasia ( and )
The prominent neoplastic population consisted mainly of plump spindle cells arranged in short fascicles in a storiform pattern. A portion of these cells were arranged in a diffuse growth pattern. In these areas, the neoplastic cells had hyperchromatic, irregular nuclei with prominent one or more nucleoli. Giant, bizarre, or multinucleated cells were commonly along with typical and atypical mitotic figures. Aggregates composed predominantly of lymphocytes and plasma cells and strands of collagen were seen in the stroma. The immunophenotype () and the morphological features of this neoplastic population were compatible with a pleomorphic undifferentiated sarcoma/malignant fibrous histiocytoma (PUS/MFH).
The second neoplastic population consisted of epithelial component and corresponded to a moderately differentiated SCC. The neoplastic cells were arranged in solid masses or cords and had eosinophilic or clear cytoplasm and big irregular nuclei with prominent nucleoli. Intercellular bridges were present. The immunophenotype of this