An 81-year-old white male presented to the Saint Louis Veterans Health Affairs chiropractic clinic in November 2014 with a referral for low back pain and he described additional complaints of neck pain, upper thoracic pain, radiating numbness, tingling and pain into the left arm, and pain that radiated into his left lateral and anterior chest wall. Coughing and sneezing significantly increased his pain in all areas of complaint and he denied chest pain and shortness of breath. Relevant medical history included concurrent care for high-grade papillary transitional cell carcinoma (TCC) of the bladder, and presence of a pacemaker. He was a 50-year non-smoker, but with a 30-pack year history of cigarette use.
His bladder cancer was diagnosed approximately one year prior after he presented with gross hematuria. Cystoscopy confirmed the presence of an 8 mm papillary tumor near the right ureteral opening and trigone, and a second cystoscopy identified a 5 mm mass on the left lateral bladder wall. Two prior biopsy and transurethral resections of bladder tumor (TURBT) procedures had been performed. Pathology report revealed high-grade transitional cell carcinoma that invaded subepithelial connective tissue, but was negative for muscular infiltration. Upon presenting for chiropractic care he was in the process of completing a second round of Bacillus Calmette-Guérin (BCG) immunotherapy.
Cervical radiographs taken one week prior to presentation were read as moderate degenerative changes of the cervical spine with moderate carotid bulb atherosclerosis (Fig. ). Physical examination revealed tenderness to touch of cervical paraspinal muscles and left upper trapezius, and diminished light touch of the left upper extremity. Left anterior chest wall pain was reproduced with manual over pressure of the left lower cervical spine. The provider could not clearly identify the cause of the upper back, chest and arm pain and did not provide any treatment to the cervical region. MRI was contraindicated due to the presence of an implanted