An 84-year-old Japanese woman with a history of lung cancer treated by surgery was admitted due to gradual worsening dyspnea over the previous month. She had had asymptomatic and unchanging pericardial effusion and a pelvic mass diagnosed 3 and 11 years previously, respectively, and had been followed-up without the need for treatment. The chest radiography and magnetic resonance imaging of the pelvis 4 months before admission are shown in Fig. and Fig. , respectively. The chest X-ray showed a nodular shadow in the right lung field (Fig. ), as well as unchanging pericardial effusion volume revealed by a chest computed tomography (CT) scan (Fig. ). Transbronchial biopsies of the lung nodule were performed, and the pathological specimen disclosed adenocarcinoma. Then, she underwent a right upper lobectomy for localized lung adenocarcinoma with pericardial fenestration, which confirmed that the pericardial effusion included abundant lymphocytes and did not contain any malignant cells. She progressed favorably after the operation and was discharged. However, she began to experience dyspnea on exertion leading to admission. On admission, she was not suffering from fever, night sweats, chest discomfort, or abdominal pain. She had a prior history of pulmonary tuberculosis treated with chemotherapy 20 years before and was treated for diabetes mellitus and hypertension in the hospital. She had no history of smoking, illicit drug use, recent travel abroad, or asbestos exposure.
The patient was conscious and afebrile, with a pulse of 108 beats/min, blood pressure of 148/50 mmHg, respiratory rate of 28 breaths/min, and oxygen saturation of 90 % in room air, which improved to 96 % on 3 L/min supplemental oxygen administered intranasally. Pulmonary auscultation revealed a decreased breath sound over the right lung field. She had normal heart sounds without murmurs. A large, hard, non-tender mass was palpable in the lower part of the abdomen. There was no finger clubbing, cyanosis, lymphadenopathy, or edema in