A 47-year-old male originally from Mexico presented to our hospital with persistent nasal congestion, sore throat, hoarseness of voice, and dysphagia. His symptoms first started 23 years before while in Mexico. At that time, he reported having had multiple episodes of epistaxis and the presence of an “extra skin” in his nose. He also reported that he had a surgical procedure at initial presentation in which his “nostrils were scraped” and subsequently was put on antibiotics for 6 months (patient unaware of the name of the antibiotics he received). His symptoms improved, only to resurface ten years later. Shortly thereafter, he moved to the USA. He experienced progressive worsening of nasal congestion, difficulty swallowing, and hoarseness of voice and went to a primary care physician for evaluation. He received 3 doses of intramuscular ceftriaxone followed by oral antibiotics. He reported a mild clinical improvement followed by rapid relapse with continued symptoms progression. He presented to our hospital for further evaluation. By the time of hospital presentation, in addition to the above symptoms the patient also noted a mass protruding into the back of his throat. He denied weight loss, fever, or chills. His past medical history was significant for treated pulmonary tuberculosis at the age of 16. He denied any cigarette smoking, drug use, or alcohol intake. His family history revealed that his maternal uncle and his oldest son had constant rhinorrhea and his mother had a mass in her nose, but all affected family members remained in Mexico with limited access to medical care. Physical exam showed an erythematous, irregular soft tissue lesion covering the entire posterior oropharynx with some white exudate (). The mucosa of the nares had a similar appearance, but no discreet mass was appreciated. The remainder of the exam was unremarkable.
Computed tomography of the neck showed a 21 × 24 × 25 mm mass in the soft palate narrowing the nasopharynx () and a lesion of 15 ×