Our patient is a 76-year-old lady with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, peripheral vascular disease, and smoking as past medical history, presenting with 2 months of a nonproductive cough. The patient was found to have a left upper lobe nodule on a plain chest radiograph and further evaluation with a computed tomography (CT) of the chest delineating a 1.2 cm spiculated nodule (). Following a PET-CT that showed pathologic FDG uptake of the lesion, the patient underwent elective left thoracotomy with upper lobe lobectomy and mediastinal lymph node resection. Pathology showed a 1.5 × 0.6 cm papillary predominant adenocarcinoma with no lymph node metastases.
The immediate postoperative course was uncomplicated and the patient was transferred to the cardiothoracic unit for observation. Follow-up chest radiography on postoperative day-1 showed a small left lower lobe opacity with the patient complaining of mild pain at the surgical site. On postoperative day-2 the patient developed atrial fibrillation with rapid ventricular rate associated with hemoptysis and worsening left sided pleuritic chest pain. Plain chest radiography showed worsening left lung opacity with bronchial cutoff (). A CT of the chest revealed diffuse ground glass attenuation of the left lower lobe with proximal bronchial obliteration (). The patient underwent elective intubation to undergo flexible bronchoscopy that revealed a tight and obstructed orifice of the left lower lobe (). She was brought to the operating room emergently for high suspicion of lobar torsion, and a left thoracotomy showed a dark purple appearing lung (). Following detorsion the lung did not appear viable; however considering the patient's baseline marginal FEV1, 24 hours was given for the lung to recover. The patient showed no clinical improvement and underwent completion of left lung pneumonectomy the next day. Postoperative recovery was uneventful and patient was discharged after 7 days. The patient was seen in the outpatient office 4 months following discharge reporting no complications.