A 24-year-old male presented to our hospital with daily complaints of chest pain and palpitations for the past three months. He endorsed to not being compliant with his prednisone and antihypertensives in the recent past. His medical history was significant for glucocorticoid remediable hyperaldosteronism (GRA) diagnosed at the age of 18, HTN, depression, and anxiety. His cardiovascular history was notable for 3 aortic dissections, at ages of 10, 17, and 22, mid-thoracic aortic aneurysm requiring endovascular repair at the age of 18, and abdominal aortic aneurysm which required open surgical repair at the age of 22. Childhood history was remarkable for early onset hypertension discovered at the age of 10 after his first episode of dissection. He also had severe headaches during childhood which were attributed to hypertension by his treating physicians. He was started then on amlodipine, carvedilol, and clonidine for the management of his hypertension. 8 years later, he was diagnosed with GRA by another physician and was started on prednisone and spironolactone. The biochemical data could not be obtained as it was done many years ago at an outside hospital, but diagnosis was confirmed by detecting the chimeric gene via PCR testing. Genetic testing was done on parents and the father was found to have abnormal gene. No family history of aortic aneurysms and negative gene testing ruled out familial thoracic aortic aneurysm and dissection. The patient's mother and father were not consanguineous, and both parents died of drug overdose. The patient's sister has Crohn's disease. The patient had a 4 pack-year smoking history.
On initial exam, patient was hypertensive with a blood pressure of 206/109. Physical exam was unremarkable except for a 4/6 systolic murmur most prominent in the aortic area with radiation to the apex. The patient did not have morphological features of related conditions like Marfan's syndrome, Ehlers-Danlos syndrome, or Loeys-Dietz syndrome. Labs either were within normal limits