A nine-year-old female was referred to our department for a mass arising in the left hard palate () that had been reportedly growing for the past several weeks and was associated with discomfort with mastication and teeth brushing, as well as minor bleeding. Examination showed an ulcerated firm mass of the left hard palate. The ulcer was not opposing the inferior dentition. CT scan showed a 2.2 × 1.3 × 2.6 cm heterogeneously enhancing expansile mass of the left lateral hard palate with bone destruction, extending into the alveolar recess and maxillary antrum. There was no evidence of orbital extension ().
A first biopsy was performed at an outside center and reviewed at out institution. The biopsy consisted of a small fragment of ulcerated squamous mucosa with a submucosal bland spindle cell proliferation. Due to the limited biopsy and lack of material to perform further immunohistochemical analysis, it was not possible to establish the nature of the tumor. Consequently, an open biopsy was performed and showed that the spindle cells were characterized by elongated cigar-shaped nuclei, eosinophilic cytoplasm with indistinct borders, and a storiform to fascicular growth pattern. Significant nuclear pleomorphism, increased mitotic activity, and necrosis were absent. The spindle cells showed variable immunoreactivity for muscle specific and smooth muscle actin and had a low Ki67 proliferation index (<5%); they were negative for desmin, S100 protein, cytokeratin (AE1/AE3), and nuclear beta-catenin. The overall findings supported the diagnosis of a myofibroma.
The patient was brought back to the operating room for resection which involved a left partial maxillectomy and reconstruction with a buccal advancement flap (Figures and ). The tumor was macroscopically completely resected despite a positive deep margin. The bone of the remaining tumor bed was drilled over the entire surface, which ensured elimination of the microscopically positive deep margin. Postoperatively, the patient tolerated a full liquid diet and was discharged the next day. Final pathology confirmed the diagnosis