Our patient was a 25-year-old Caucasian male who presented to the hospital with the chief complaint of fever and night sweats. Onset of symptoms was four weeks prior at which time he presented to another hospital. His initial workup included an X-ray and CT scan of his chest, which showed bilateral consolidation. His blood cultures grew Flavimonas for which he was started on appropriate antibiotics. The patient left that hospital against medical advice before the completion of treatment. The patient reported persistent symptoms of fever, chills, and night sweat since then. His past medical and surgical history is significant only for nephrolithiasis status after lithotripsy procedure. As per patient, his social history was significant for smoking about 1 pack of cigarettes daily and he denied any alcohol or drug abuse. His family history was noncontributory and he has no known allergies. The patient also denied any recent travel or sick contacts.
When the patient presented to the emergency room at our institute, his vital signs were the following: blood pressure of 126/54 mm of Hg, heart rate of 102 bpm, respiratory rate of 18/min, and a temperature of 101.2°F. His respiratory system examination revealed clear breath sounds on auscultation and his cardiac examination was unremarkable. His head and neck and neurological and abdominal examination were also unremarkable. However, on generalized skin examination there were signs of injection usage in his right and left antecubital fossa. His initial blood work revealed a white blood cell count of 11700 with 87% neutrophils and 79 bands, a normal hematocrit and platelet count. His renal functions, liver functions, and urinalysis were within normal limits. Blood cultures were redrawn from peripheral sites and grew Bacillus cereus which was found to be resistant to penicillin in multiple culture bottles. Chest X-ray was unremarkable.
Even after 9 days of treatment with IV vancomycin, he continued to have positive blood cultures for bacillus cereus.