A 3-year-old boy with severe respiratory distress admitted to emergency department. He had pneumothorax at right chest and underwent tube thoracostomy (
). In his past medical history, he has free of symptoms and had no chronic disease. None of the family members had lung disease and none of them were smokers. At admission, his vital signs were within normal limits except high respiratory rate (45/minute). Total blood count, liver, and renal function tests were also unremarkable. On physical examination, a 2 × 1 cm palpable mass was noted at right side of neck. Computed tomography (CT) of chest revealed bilateral air cysts in varying sizes with ground glass appearance (
). Pneumothorax was also detected. The patient underwent biopsy form the neck mass and diagnosed as LCH confined to right salivary gland. The histopathologic features include polymorph nuclear leucocytes and atypical histocytes with oval nucleus with pale granular cytoplasm. Immunohistochemical staining with CD1a (cluster of differentiation 1 a) and S100 were positive. Chemotherapy including vinblastine and prednisone was initiated. During follow-up, pneumothorax persisted and another chest tube was inserted on the left side. Since the patient was unresponsive to medical treatment 2 weeks after admission, chemical pleurodesis with talc (2 cc) was performed. The pleurodesis was performed through tube thoracostomy. No intrapleural analgesics were used. The tube was clamped for 1 hour and unclamped at the end of procedure. During the clamped period, patients recommended to rotate on each side for 10 minutes. At the end of 10 days follow-up, patient developed bilateral pneumothorax with subcutaneous emphysema despite tube thoracostomy. Thoracoscopic bullae excision with pleural decortication was performed 10 days after talc pleurodesis (
). Histopathological evaluation of pleural biopsies obtained by thoracoscopy revealed inflammation and foreign bodies (talc). No lung biopsy was sampled during bullae excision. After surgical excision of subpleural bullae, the patient was symptom free for only 1 week