A 50-year-old caucasian woman was referred to our clinic with a 12 months history of severe, recurrent pain episodes in her right knee. She was a non-smoker, with no other notable family or medical history for any pathological condition. Systemic diseases such as gout, systemic sclerosis, dermatomyositis, and sarcoidosis or any metabolic or endocrine disorders such as hyperparathyroidism and renal failure were excluded. There were no past trauma incidents. Her orthopedic surgeon had diagnosed a calcifying lesion of the MCL 9 months prior to admission to our hospital and had treated her conservatively under the assumption of a calcifying tendinitis-like pathological condition. After some temporary pain relief she still suffered from pain at the medial side of the knee and limited range of motion. The conservative management included analgesics, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), electro-therapy and shock wave therapy.
Physical examination of the right knee revealed local pain and swelling over the medial femoral condyle with intact soft tissues and no joint effusion. The patient was able to fully extend her knee but flexion was limited to 120° with increasing pain at the MCL beginning with 90° flexion. Patellar mobility was not limited. There was no ligament laxity and clinical tests for detection of meniscus lesions were all negative. There was no sensorimotor deficit. Blood tests showed no evidence of haematological or metabolic abnormality. Knee x-rays revealed linear soft tissue opacity medial to the femoral condyle, suggesting a lobate calcifying lesion within the proximal and middle section of the MCL and surrounding tissue. Antero-posterior, lateral and merchant’s views verified the presence of the calcified lesion. MRI without contrast agent of the knee confirmed the presence of this lobate structure, which was characterized by an hypointense signal on the T2 weighted images, located in direct vicinity of the intact MCL in the coronal and sagittal plane, with direct contact to the ligament structure, which was seen in the sagittal and axial plane images of the knee. There were