A 56-year-old female presented to the emergency room with a three-day history of right hip pain. She reported decreased range of motion and difficulty ambulating. She denied constitutional symptoms or fever. She had undergone intra-articular steroid injection of her right hip three days prior. Review of systems was otherwise unremarkable. Her past medical history was relevant for hereditary spherocytosis with splenectomy at age 14 and chronic right hip osteoarthritis. Her only medication was celecoxib as needed. She denied any drug allergy. She was unaware of her immunization history. She worked as a flight attendant, denied smoking or recreational drug use, and had not recently travelled outside of Canada. On initial examination she was afebrile and her vital signs were within normal limits. On examination of her right hip she had limitation of internal rotation with reproducible pain, but her physical exam otherwise was unremarkable. Her initial investigations showed elevation in C-reactive protein (CRP) and erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR) at 22.9 mg/L and 25 mm/hr, respectively. Her white blood cell count was not elevated. An X-ray of her right hip showed severe joint space narrowing with osteophytosis consistent with severe osteoarthritis. Arthrocentesis was performed and synovial fluid samples were directly inoculated onto solid culture media, including blood agar and chocolate agar. Two of three samples also underwent cytospin centrifugation and direct Gram stain. Gram-negative bacilli were observed in one sample though heavy neutrophils were observed in both. Synovial fluid analysis for cell count and chemistry was not performed due to insufficient sample. She was admitted to hospital for 24 hours of observation and was subsequently discharged with instructions to return to hospital if her symptoms worsened or if cultures subsequently grew a pathogenic organism.
Three days later she was seen in a follow-up clinic. In the interim she had developed a fever (38.3°C), had chills, and had worsening right hip pain.