A 74 year-old Caucasian female never-smoker initially presented with a pleural effusion and was diagnosed with invasive adenocarcinoma following a pleural biopsy. The pleural biopsy performed revealed dense fibrous tissue with invasive adenocarcinoma with mucin production and associated psammomatous calcifications. The patient was initially treated with carboplatin, paclitaxel, and bevacizumab with good response, and she continued on maintenance bevacizumab for four years after diagnosis. Subsequently treatment was switched to pemetrexed but had to be stopped due to secondary fatigue and failure to thrive. Molecular (EGFR/ALK) testing was carried out on tissue procured from the initial right pleural biopsy. Using this sample with 35 % viable tumor tissue, the patient was found to be both EGFR wild-type and ALK-negative by FISH.
Chest computed tomography (CT) scan showed that the patient had marginal progression of her right pleural rind along with slow progressive growth of right chest wall nodule. She also received palliative radiation to her right chest nodule at this time. In year six, a re-biopsy was carried out on the chest wall skin, and the results indicated the presence of a well differentiated adenocarcinoma, with mucinous features. Immunohistochemistry stains were positive for nuclear thyroid transcription factor-1 and negative for estrogen receptor and progesterone receptor, which were consistent with a lung primary tumor. The tissue obtained was analyzed by NGS to identify potential actionable mutations. NGS testing results (Foundation Medicine, Inc., MA) indicated that the tumor was ALK-rearrangement positive for EIF2AK3-ALK fusion, and the patient received crizotinib treatment for 19 months. The patient responded well to crizotinib in the first 12 months of treatment (Fig. ), with significant interval decrease in the pleural based tumor, mediastinal lymphadenopathy, and subcutaneous metastatic deposits. Continued decreases in the size of nodules associated with the right pleural-based tumor, mediastinal lymphadenopathy and subcutaneous metastatic deposits was seen, followed by stable disease until 16 months into treatment, when