A 54-year-old African-American man presented to our resident clinic at Johns Hopkins Hospital for discharge follow-up after admission for wrist pain and a suspected viral gastroenteritis. He did not have a primary care physician due to lack of health insurance and had been seen in our emergency department several times over the past year.
He had been well until 7 months earlier when he developed unilateral pain and redness of his right eye. An ophthalmologic evaluation in our emergency department revealed anterior uveitis, which resolved with topical steroids. Five months later he sought care for right ear pain. Computed tomography (CT) imaging revealed inflammation of his pinna, consistent with auricular chondritis. This resolved spontaneously without treatment. Two months later, he again returned to our emergency department with pain and redness of his right wrist. He was diagnosed with cellulitis and empirically treated with oral clindamycin for 7 days with minimal improvement. Just 3 days later, he was admitted for sudden onset of fever and diarrhea. A viral etiology was suspected given the quick resolution of his symptoms and management with conservative therapy. He was discharged home within 48 hours with follow-up in our internal medicine resident clinic.
At his out-patient visit a few days after discharge, he had persistent swelling of his right wrist that limited his ability to operate motor vehicles at his job as a valet. Further questioning revealed a 27 kg (60 pounds) unintentional weight loss over the past 6 months. He denied epistaxis, cough, hemoptysis, chest pain, dyspnea, recurrent ocular symptoms, rash, low back pain, abdominal pain, frequent stools, melena, or hematochezia. He had no significant past medical or surgical history. His family history was unremarkable. He did not smoke tobacco, drink alcohol, or use illicit drugs.
On examination, he was a well-developed well-nourished black man who appeared comfortable. He was alert and fully oriented. His vital signs were