A 75-year-old Japanese man who had no history of thrombosis or thromboembolism underwent resection of his right upper lung lobe for adenocarcinoma of localized adenocarcinoma without distant metastasis, 2 years previously. Chemotherapy and radiation therapy were not performed. After the operation, periodic follow-up CT was undertaken every 6 months and fluorodeoxyglucose-positron emission tomography (FDG-PET) was performed after 1 year of operation in order to check for recurrence of lung cancer, and the results showed no recurrence or distant metastasis and no abnormality of the thoracic aorta or unexpected mural thrombus (Fig. ). However, an aortic thrombus was incidentally detected in the descending aortic arch 1.5 years after the primary operation (Fig. ). At that time, the patient was apparently healthy, with a body temperature of 36.2 °C, blood pressure of 122/68 mmHg, heart rate of 76 bpm, and peripheral oxygen saturation of 96 % in room air. Laboratory data showed slightly elevated D-dimer, decreased plasma protein-C activity, and normal liver function and lipid profile (Table ). Lupus anticoagulant or anticardiolipin antibody was not detected and the patient stopped smoking at 60-year-old (Brinkman index 800). Although the cause and significance of decreased protein-C activity was not fully understood, we started anticoagulant therapy for aortic thrombosis using warfarin. Follow-up CT showed the aortic thrombus was gradually regressing and was eliminated completely after 6 months of anticoagulant therapy without major complications (Fig. ). Then, anticoagulant therapy was terminated without recurrence of aortic thrombus and plasma protein-C activity was recovered within normal range (72 %).
Aortic thrombosis is a rare disease which can cause distal embolism, but can also be detected incidentally in asymptomatic cases [, ]. Although aortic mural thrombus associated with abnormal aortic disease, such as aortic aneurysm and aortic dissection, is often seen, a thrombus in an apparently healthy aorta is very rare, since the aortic blood flow is too fast for clotting and the formation of