The patient is a 73 year old Caucasian lady who presented in November 2013 with a hoarse voice. She had a past history of a left total knee replacement, cholecycstectomy and appendecectomy and was on no regular medications. She had a 40 pack year smoking history. There were no significant findings on physical examination, notably no palpable lymphadenopathy, chest nor abdominal findings. CT and FDG-PET imaging demonstrated lesions adjacent to the thoracic aortic arch, aortopulmonary lymphadenopathy, a left superior internal mammary lymph node and a left pleural/para-vertebral lesion near T10. An endobronchial ultrasound (EBUS) guided FNA biopsy of a subcarinal lymph node showed aggregates of epithelioid histiocytes consistent with granulomas without evidence of malignancy. Core biopsy was also attempted and showed abnormal lymphoid cells but without monoclonality. In January 2014, the mediastinal mass, mediastinal lymph node and left pleural mass were resected via a left lateral thoracotomy and talc pleurodesis was performed to debulk the disease and obtain tissue for diagnosis. A timeline of the patient’s clinical course is outlined in Table .
The histopathological and immunohistochemical analysis led to a diagnosis of FDCS though the specimen was difficult to interpret due to admixed reactive populations of lymphocytes, fibroblasts, histiocytes and blood vessels. Focally, the tumour expressed some histiocytic and muscle markers, raising the possibility of inflammatory myofibroblastic sarcoma or histiocytic sarcoma but there were areas of bland spindle cells expressing CD21 favouring the diagnosis of FDCS. Interestingly, the tumour was positive for CD21 but negative for CD23 and CD35. Subsequent FDG-PET scan showed residual mediastinal disease, a new T9 metastasis, and pleural-based uptake thought to be secondary to pleurodesis. The case was reviewed at a multidisciplinary team meeting and treatment with CHOP chemotherapy, plus or minus radiotherapy, was recommended. She completed 4 cycles of CHOP and proceeded to mediastinal radiotherapy 50.4 Gy in 28 fractions, encompassing all sites of