A 26 year old female has been referred to our clinic with right sided hip pain of sub acute onset. Her pain worsened with movement and weight bearing. On clinical examination, she had restricted range of movement with pain and mild joint tenderness. On plain x-ray she found to have AVN of right femoral head suggested by classical crescent sign with preserved articular margins on plain film and underwent extensive evaluation for a cause. Apart from malaise, fatiguability and moderately elevated erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR) of 65 mm in 1st h no other symptom or laboratory feature could be found. Her hemoglobin level was 10.6 g/dL and white cell count, platelet count, C-reactive protein was normal. After 6 months she presented with a similar pain in left hip and subsequent work up revealed AVN of left femoral head as well on plain x-ray and findings were similar to the previous right sided hip joint. Other than above presentation she had no other complains at that point. Her past medical history was not significant, she gave birth to a healthy term baby 7 months prior to above presentations and her obstetric history was uneventful. She did not consume alcohol and was a non-smoker. She was not on any form of corticosteroid or other medications prior to the event except nutritional supplements during antenatal period and she has not taken any indigenous medicines. There was no family history of connective tissue or other autoimmune condition of note. At the time she of the second event of hip pain she underwent a comprehensive work up with involvement of a multidisciplinary specialists. In view of persistently high ESR and multiple AVN of bones, she underwent a work up for chronic infections such as tuberculosis, and for autoimmune connective tissue diseases with serological studies including antinuclear antibody (ANA), Anti Smith antibody (Sm), serum complements C3 and C4, Anti Ro and Anti La antibodies. She was also screen for Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) infection, Hepatitis B and C infections.