A 72-year-old woman presented to our clinic having nonspecific dyspeptic disturbances and mild pain in the epigastrium. She had no other symptoms and was free from any underlying disease. The patient had a medical history that included thyroidectomy (5 months earlier), tumor excision of her left breast (2 years earlier), and cholecystectomy and appendectomy (both more than 10 years earlier). The patient had an unremarkable family history and was not taking any medications. Other pertinent details from her medical history were that she was allergic to an unknown antibiotic and she did not smoke or drink alcohol. Physical examination revealed mild abdominal tenderness at the epigastrium and left hypochondrium and mild tenderness at her left breast, but no other signs. The patient was completely fit, and her vital signs and laboratory examinations (including tumor marker tests) were all within normal ranges. The patient underwent magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) which revealed a 3 cm, well-demarcated, enhanced mass in the tail of the pancreas (Figures and ).
She had no other imaging exams, and she was scheduled for surgery with the suspicion that the tumor was a nonfunctional pancreatic neuroendocrine tumor (NET). Intraoperatively, a well-encapsulated mass was recognized at the tail of the pancreas and distal pancreatectomy without splenectomy was performed by laparotomy. The patient's recovery was complicated by a pancreatic fistula that lasted for ten days and resolved spontaneously with conservative treatment. The patient had no other events, and she was discharged from the hospital on the fifth postoperative day.
Histological examination demonstrated a solid serous adenoma of the pancreas. Gross examination showed a well-demarcated tumor. Microscopic examination of the neoplasm showed a tumor with well-defined borders with a fibrous capsule () that consisted of clear cells located in solid nests with a few tubules (). The solid nests had round nuclei and were without atypia, mitoses, or necrosis ().
The adjacent pancreatic tissue was completely normal, and invasion of the capsule was