Our patient is a 52-year-old Caucasian woman of German descent with a remote history of BD diagnosed as a teenager with recurrent oral lesions, genital lesions, and uveitis with only mild exacerbations over the past 30 years, who presented to us with a new onset headache. She reported that the headache started about 4 weeks before and it was intermittent at first but became constant 7 days prior to admission. She described the headache as pressure-like pain at the occipital regions bilaterally radiating to the vertex. Her headaches were associated with intermittent bilateral ear pain. She denied any focal weakness, nausea, vomiting, photophobia, or phonophobia. Aggravating factors for the headache included staring at the computer screen at work. She tried over-the-counter anti-inflammatories along with baclofen which helped initially. She denied any recent travel outside the US, had no recent sick contacts, reported infrequent alcohol use, and denied any toxic habits such as smoking and illicit drug use. She had no previous history of similar headaches personally or a family history of headaches. Physical examination, including a detailed neurologic examination, was within normal limits.
Of note, eight months prior to her presentation for evaluation of her headache, she had an episode of acute word-finding difficulties. She presented to our hospital and was admitted for a workup of suspected ischemic stroke. A brain MRI showed a focal T2 hyperintensity within the posterior left temporal lobe assumed to be due to an acute ischemic stroke. She was admitted and further workup was unrevealing of the etiology of her suspected ischemic stroke. As an outpatient, a repeat brain MRI one month after hospitalization showed resolution of this left temporal lesion. Clinically, the patient reported complete resolution of her word-finding difficulties.
On the admission to evaluate her headache, a repeat brain MRI showed T2 hyperintensities in the left thalamus, right mesial occipital lobe, and left brachium pontis (). The MRI