The patient is a 47-year-old male refugee from Rwanda who was referred for urologic evaluation by his primary care physician for a mildly painful, slowly enlarging nodule on his left hemiscrotum. The lesion had been present for two years, having become painful over the past 6 months. The patient reported no associated discharge or changes in color or texture. He denied any personal or family history of genitourinary malignancies or dermatologic issues.
A genitourinary examination demonstrated a mobile, pea-sized, scrotal lesion near the left penoscrotal junction. No other masses, lesions, or inguinal adenopathy were noted. At the time, the lesion appeared to be most consistent with a sebaceous cyst. A complete dermatologic examination was also performed which did not demonstrate any other lesions.
Given the unknown etiology of this scrotal lesion, a scrotal ultrasound was performed to evaluate any deeper involvement. This demonstrated a 7 mm superficial, hypoechoic soft-tissue nodule (). An incidental right-sided varicocele and hydrocele and small bilateral epididymal cysts were also found. Of note, unilateral right-sided varicoceles are rare and may signify underlying pathology causing inferior vena caval obstruction, classically from tumor thrombus involving the IVC []. To further evaluate this right-sided varicocele, a renal ultrasound was performed which demonstrated an indeterminate vascular mass measuring 1.5 cm in the right kidney and a 1 cm mass consistent with a Bosniak type II cyst in the left kidney.
Due to the uncertain nature of the scrotal nodule and the patient's report of bothersome pain, the patient was offered continued observation or surgical excision and elected for the latter. After infiltration of the area with 1% lidocaine, an elliptical skin excision was made encompassing the lesion measuring approximately 1.0 cm × 2.0 cm. This was then dissected free from the subcutaneous tissue, showing no obvious extension of the nodule into deeper tissue. The patient tolerated the procedure well