A 66-year-old male with a past medical history of stage IV pancreatic cancer with metastasis to the liver, who was on chemotherapy treatment consisting of gemcitabine and an oral experimental agent, inosine monophosphate dehydrogenase (IMPDH), presented with increasing abdominal pain and nausea to the emergency department. The patient reported that abdominal pain increased after biliary stent replacement four days ago. Though the patient used oxycodone with dilaudid at home for pain control, he reported that the pain was increasing. On admission, he graded the pain as 8/10. The patient also complained of constipation. His last bowel movement was several days prior to his admission. The patient denied any fevers, chills, or any kind of urinary symptoms.
His medications included pancreatic enzyme replacement, omeprazole, levothyroxine, sodium docusate, and pain medications as mentioned above. He admitted to drinking alcohol socially and denied smoking history. The patient was started on intravenous dilaudid and the pain improved. During his hospital stay, the belly remained distended and tympanitic, which was attributed to constipation due to the initial high doses of narcotics. The patient's abdominal x-ray subsequently showed an ileus with improvement during his hospitalization. His laboratory results showed that he was clostridium difficile antigen positive with clostridium difficile toxin negative and he was placed on intravenous (IV) metronidazole. However, on day 10 of hospitalization, the patient had an episode of nausea followed by emesis of 100-200 cc of bright red blood. He had passed brown stool and also complained of mid epigastric abdominal pain. On further evaluation, he was found to be orthostatic.
Gastroenterology service was consulted and the patient was transferred to the intensive care unit for further management. An upper endoscopy revealed large varices with nipple and red wale signs at the gastroesophageal (GE) junction. Though the varices were banded, a large amount of blood was seen in the stomach. An axial IV enhanced computerized