A 60-year-old man was brought to the emergency department with a chief complaint of periumbilical abdominal pain. He suffered from abdominal pain for two weeks but it was significantly increased in the three days prior to admission. The pain radiated to the back and no accompanying signs or symptoms were present. It was described as a constant pain without any alleviating or exacerbating factors. The patient was a heavy smoker without any history of previous surgery or drug use.
The patient showed stable vital signs and a nuisance general appearance. No objective signs of weight loss or cachexia were observed. The physical exam was normal in the head and neck, chest, and extremities. In the abdomen a pulsatile mass was palpated in the periumbilical region. Routine laboratory tests revealed mild normocytic normochromic anemia, normal ESR and CRP, and liver function and diagnostic tests within normal limits.
Due to the pulsatile nature of the mass a CT angiography of the abdomen was ordered to look for vascular pathology. The tomography revealed a 5-by-4 cm pseudoaneurysm with hematoma formation in the infrarenal aorta alongside diffuse dilation of the infrarenal inferior vena cava with extension into both common iliac veins (), and the patient was prepped for surgical repair.
During surgery a pulsatile mass 20 by 20 cm in diameter with surrounding hematoma was observed in left zones 1 and 2. Upon further investigation a huge retroperitoneal mass 11 by 8 by 6 cm in diameter with apparent local invasion to the aorta and the inferior vena cava was found. En bloc resection was attempted along with involved vascular segments. The abdominal aorta was reconstructed using 16 mm-by-8 mm Dacron bifurcated graft, while the IVC was ligated below the renal veins but perhaps because of chronic process of disease no lower extremity edema happened and the patient was discharged after a week.
Pathologic evaluation of the specimen showed an undifferentiated pleomorphic sarcoma (a.k.a. malignant fibrous histiocytoma) with a histologic grade