A 46-year-old male presented with progressive, mostly postprandial abdominal pain, and significant weight loss of almost 44 lb. in a six-month period.
His medical history was notable for heavy smoking for the past 30 years and cholelithiasis. His medications included 40 mg esomeprazole once a day.
Four months prior to presentation, he underwent an esophagogastroduodenoscopy (EGD) to evaluate similar complaints and was diagnosed with peptic ulcer disease (PUD) with positive HP. No improvement followed a course of a high dosage of esomeprazole and Helicobacter eradication therapy.
On admission the patient was stable, with a heart rate of 65 beats/min., blood pressure of 110/60 mmHg, and oxygen saturation of 98%. His physical examination was unremarkable except for epigastric tenderness and bilateral temporal and extremities wasting. Laboratory tests revealed normal CBC, kidney, and liver function. His C-reactive protein and erythrocyte sedimentation rate were also unremarkable.
Upon admission, a review of a computed tomography (CT) scan was done in an outpatient setting and revealed fatty liver, thickened gastric wall (), and a hypodense area in the stomach; however no revision of the gastrointestinal arterial vasculature was done at that time. The patient underwent second EGD that revealed mildly erythematous antral mucosa. An immunohistochemical stain for HP was negative. Random gastric biopsies showed mild chronic active gastritis. The patient was discharged with the impression that he is suffering from active nonspecific gastritis. The dosage of esomeprazole was escalated to 40 mg twice a day. Due to the continuity of his symptoms, a third EGD was performed that showed hyperemic erythematous gastric mucosa with few longitudinal ulcerations that were located on the greater curvature on a preantral location. The pathology examination from gastric biopsies revealed a single focus of markedly atypical glands with necrotic material in the lumen, suspicious of a malignancy. A week later, a fourth EGD showed large ulcerations on the pre