A 47-year-old male reported to the outpatient Department of Prosthodontics and Crown and Bridge, Maulana Azad Institute of Dental Sciences, New Delhi, with the chief complaint of difficulty in chewing food due to loss of teeth 5 years ago. History revealed that reason for loss of teeth was aggressive periodontitis with 36 and 46 teeth being removed at a very young age of 35. History of bidi smoking was also present for 10–15 years but he left the habit 5 years ago after the loss of teeth. He was a first-time denture wearer. Intraoral examination revealed completely edentulous arches with severely resorbed lower residual ridge with body prominence in the mid symphyseal region and depressed areas with respect to 36 and 46 region (Figures and ). Medical history did not reveal any significant findings. Fabrication of complete dentures was planned for the patient.
Maxillary and mandibular complete dentures were fabricated in the conventional manner (). Selective pressure impression technique was used for mandibular final impression and semianatomic posterior teeth were used to reduce the stresses on the edentulous ridge at the time of try-in.
Follow-up was done after 24 hours of denture insertion and further after 3 weeks and 3 months. Even after 3 months of denture wear with all the instructions followed by the patient, he could not adjust with his new dentures with complains of sore mouth and ulceration along with pain specially in the elevated midline area and depressed 36 and 46 regions although occlusion was satisfactory. Pressure indicating paste was used in 2 consecutive sittings which could provide only temporary relief for few days. After 2 months of adjustment, patient then reported after a gap of 6 months again with the same problem in the same areas. Adjustment was done again and patient remained asymptomatic for the next 4 months. Thus, when it was seen that even after 1 year of denture wear patient is not fully satisfied, going for permanent soft reline was decided as the mucosa in the