J.R. was a 3210 gram child born to a 21-year-old gravida 1, para 1 mother by vaginal delivery at 36 weeks of gestation. The mother received appropriate prenatal care and the pregnancy was uncomplicated. There was no gestational history of tobacco, alcohol, illicit substance or medication use. A cardiac echogenic focus and possible anatomic heart defect was noted on routine prenatal ultrasound examination and the child was transferred to the neonatal intensive care unit for management at birth. A thoracic echocardiogram showed mitral stenosis, aortic stenosis and coarctation of the aorta. Surgical repair of the coarctation was conducted. A right diaphragmatic eventration was simultaneously repaired. During this initial hospitalization no cardiac arrhythmias were monitored on telemetry. Due to the structural heart defects a chromosome analysis including fluorescence in situ hybridization for both DiGeorge loci was performed and revealed no abnormalities. A diagnosis of Kabuki syndrome was made by two independent geneticists based on phenotypic features. Clinical features in this child consistent with the diagnosis of Kabuki syndrome included arched eyebrows with sparse hair laterally, eversion of the lateral lower eyelid, a cleft palate, bifid uvula, broad nasal root with depressed nasal tip, and persistent fetal finger tip pads with otherwise normal dermatoglyphics. Neuroimaging revealed severe corpus callosum hypoplasia and ophthalmologic examination showed optic nerve atrophy bilaterally. Congenital hypothyroidism was also detected. Further cytogenetic analysis using telomere probes was conducted without detection of abnormalities.
The subsequent hospital course was complicated by numerous infections secondary to hypogammaglobulinemia and he was finally discharged to home at 3 months of age. After one week at home, he was noted to be cyanotic and non-responsive and was re-admitted to the hospital where the patient was considered to be septic and placed on broad spectrum antibiotics.
At 6.5 months of age, he was admitted to the hospital with a urinary tract infection. Sinus bradyarrythmia was recorded associated with hypoxemia