A 40-year-old female with negative smoking and medical history was admitted with productive cough, progressively aggravating dyspnea on exertion, and recurrent pulmonary infections for the previous 2 months. The chest X-ray showed total atelectasis of the left lung (Figure ), and the thoracic CT-scan revealed a mass of the left hemithorax, which probably originated in the mediastinum and extended to the whole left pleural space (Figure ). The mass showed heterogeneous density containing soft tissue elements, fat, cystic areas and foci of calcification, which is the classic imaging appearance of a benign teratoma on CT. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) was performed to specify the anatomic relationships and confirm the tumor morphologic features. The MRI yielded useful information about the vital structures of the mediastinum, whether invaded or externally compressed by the tumor. Specifically, the MRI confirmed a round, non-homogeneous, well circumscribed mass of a 12 cm diameter, exerting compression on the mediastinum great vessels and the left hilar structures (vessels and airway) (Figure ). The bronchoscopy found stenosis of the trachea by external compression, and narrowing in the foramen of the left main bronchus resulting in difficulty in the insertion of the bronchoscope. The mediastinal tumor markers (α-fetoprotein and β-human chorionic gonadotropin) were both normal. As the findings of CT and MRI suggested a benign teratoma, a complete resection was contemplated. Since the mass was supposed to be respectable, surgical management was first in the priority list of therapeutic options. The cytological examination through transcutaneous needle aspiration or biopsy of the tumor were considered redundant and were omitted, because of the dispersion risk and the necessity for total removal so as to ameliorate the respiratory function and re-expand the left lung. Moreover, needle biopsy allows examination of only a small amount of tissue and may be inadequate for definitive diagnosis []. As already underlined in the literature, diagnosis and therapy rely on surgical excision, and even with large sized tumors whose complete