We present the case of a 66 year-old woman with history of intense smoking (pack years of 50), diabetes mellitus detected a prior year and COPD (Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease) diagnosed 8 prior months. She came at the emergency department to receive medical attention by presenting fever, loss of weight and dyspnea. During the initial evaluation was performed a thorax CT scan that showed lymph nodes enlargement and subsequently by presence of abdominal pain was performed an abdominal and pelvis CT scan that showed a right kidney tumor of 4 × 5 cms besides of abdominal lymph nodes enlargement. A radical right nephrectomy was designed, prior to surgery we performed an spirometer study that revealed a moderate obstruction pattern. The surgical procedure included lymph nodes remotion. Histopathology study revealed Hodgkin's lymphoma involving right kidney, abdominal lymph nodes, ureter and liver. Immunostaining showed positiveness for CD15, CD30 and LMP-1 while CD3, EMA and ALK were negative. Histological study also reported a clear renal cell cancer, degree II, involving only the right kidney without extension to any other structure. Surgical resection was complete and margins were negative for cancer, diffuse glomerulosclerosis also was found. After surgical procedure we did a bilateral bone marrow biopsy that was negative for lymphoma. Staging studies showed an IV b stage and 4 unfavorable factors (stage IV, hemoglobin 7,2 g/dl, albumin 3.2 g/dl and lymphocytes <0.6) at diagnosis. We performed an echocardiography study that revealed light enlargement of right cavities, diastolic dysfunction and moderate pulmonary hypertension. The patient received chemotherapy with a protocol called EVA (etoposide, vinblastine and doxorubicin). After third cycle we documented complete response, fact that was obtained after completed the chemotherapy scheme. At present she continues asymptomatic without evidence of disease activity. We present a figure that shows in the panel A and B a tumor involving the right kidney, measuring 4 × 5 cms while panel C shows the CD 30 immunostain being positive in the neoplasms