A 75-years-old male during an ordinary visit for drug prescription due to his chronic health problems, described his complaints (voice alteration, dysphagia and saliva drooling progressively worsening during the last few weeks) and his general physician referred him for an E.N.T. evaluation. The lack of any pain sensation was the reason for the delay of seeing a physician. His medical history was significant for severe benign prostatic hyperplasia, hypertension and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. He was heavy tobacco smoker until recently. No history of alcohol intake was referred.
Clinical examination of the oral cavity revealed an oversized pigmented soft mass arising from the left half of his hard palate involving the soft palate and the ipsilateral palatine tonsil causing partial obstruction of the oral cavity and the oropharynx (Figure ). Some pigmented macules of various sizes were also noted growing at the periphery of the tumor. During neck palpation a 2 × 3 cm firm mobile non-tender mass was palpated at the left upper jugular region. A punch biopsy of the oral mass was performed.
A complete blood cell count, biochemical profile, and urinalysis were ordered without significant findings. A chest x ray was normal.
Histological examination of the specimen demonstrated extensive infiltration of the ulcerated mucosa by neoplastic predominantly epithelioid cells, in a solid, nested, trabecular or alveolar pattern. The cells were round to oval, having prominent eosinophilic nucleoli and atypical mitotic figures. In areas with intact surface epithelium was identified continuity of the tumor with the epithelium. There were also brown pigment deposition and neoplastic giant cells (figure ).
A computer tomography with contrast revealed pathologically enlarged cervical lymph nodes of the left neck. Signs of infiltration of the ipsilateral medial pterygoid muscle were also observed (figure ).
Work up for distant metastases (CT scan of chest, brain and abdomen plus bone scintigraphy) was negative.
Medical information was provided to the patient and his family regarding the diagnosis, staging, therapeutic options and