A 41-year-old male was admitted to the Emergency Department complaining for acute sharp abdominal pain followed by abdominal distention, nausea, vomiting and bloody stools. The patient was a heavy smoker (70 cig/24 h) and reported mild abdominal distention during the last month and an episode of anal bleeding 4 years ago, which had been attributed to hemorrhoids. His mother died after surgical operation for multiple polyposis coli.
The physical examination revealed abdominal distention, hypoactive bowel sounds, and a large palpable intra-abdominal mass with peritoneal signs. A palpable osteomatosis of the right mandible, multiple sebaceous cysts and subcutaneous fibromas of the trunk and head were observed. The absence of intestinal sounds, the distention and the abdominal contraction suggested acute abdomen. The blood analysis suggested leukocytosis (WBC 18110/μL out of which 94% were neutrophils) and anemia (Hct 29.3% and Hb 7.7 g/dl).
Abdominal ultrasound revealed a large mass with necrotic lesions. Triplex study of the mass indicated decreased internal circulation with measurable velocity. An abdominal CT scan that performed after oral gastrographin administration and IV contrast medium infusion, revealed a large intra-abdominal neoplastic mass consisting of tissues of variable density. The mass was extended from the pancreas to the pelvic entrance (figure ). The tumor displaced the adjacent visceral structures. Other findings include a small diaphragmatic hernia, and a hypodense enlargement of the right adrenal due to adrenal adenoma. Sigmoidoscopy up to 20 cm revealed multiple polyps.
The patient was surgically treated. After entering the abdominal cavity a large solid neoplasmatic mass which invaded parts of the small and large intestine was recognized. The abdominal tumor was resected, along with the involved parts of the small intestine and the right colon (Figure ). The excised right colon revealed numerous small and large polyps, suggesting a background of familial polyposis. The adrenal adenoma was also resected; cholecystectomy was carried out due to