The patient was a 48-year-old male, diabetic, dyslipidaemic, former heavy smoker and suffering from paranoid schizophrenia, a triple aorto-coronary bypass was performed 4 years before by sternotomy. The patient was healthy till a few days before admission to the hospital, when he suffered constant oppressive chest pain.
Standard chest radiography followed by computed tomography (CT) scan and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) showed a mass measuring 15 cm in diameter, located in the anterior mediastinum with extension to the right hemithorax (Figure , ). MRI showed a contiguity between the mass and the bypass grafts without signs of invasion (Figure , ). Electrocardiography (EKG) and exercise stress test were also negative for cardiac disorders a coronary angiography was however performed to confirm the patency and functioning of the bypass.
The patient, whose symptoms worsened, was submitted to surgery without further investigations since it was thought that a preoperative histological determination would not change the therapeutic approach.
The surgical approach was a re-sternotomy with opening of the right pleural cavity. Exploration revealed a mass abutting sternal periosteum from which it could be separated. The mass extended from the aortic arch into the anterior mediastinum and most of the right pleural cavity without invading the lung. The main surgical problem was to be able to preserve aorto-coronary bypass which consisted of three venous grafts from ascending aorta to the main coronary vessels. The mass was isolated starting from the aortic arch, a dissection plane was there found, making it possible to separate the venous grafts. Right pericardium was however infiltrated and was removed permitting radical excision of the mass. The postoperative course was uneventful and the patient was discharged on seventh postoperative day.
The histological examination of the mass revealed a mesenchymal tumour with fibromixoid features, the ultrastructure of which was that of an aggressive fibromatosis (Figure ). At a 3 years follow-up the patient is still recurrence free.