Three years before initial presentation, a 19 year-old female experienced the first of seven spontaneous pneumothorax events. By that time, three first trimester miscarriages had occurred (etiology unknown) and she had already undergone an uncomplicated term vaginal delivery of a healthy male infant. The patient did not use alcohol but had a four pack-year smoking history; she had stopped smoking 10d before her first pneumothorax. In the sixth week of her fifth pregnancy, she "felt sharp right-sided chest pain" radiating posteriorly accompanied by right arm paraesthesia and dyspnea. This developed while driving her car home. There was no history of trauma, coughing or sneezing episodes. She was brought to the emergency room where she was admitted with the diagnosis of right pneumothorax and a chest tube was placed. Good re-expansion was noted on chest x-ray and the patient was discharged home 2d later.
Approximately two weeks later, a second pneumothorax occurred, this time following a prolonged "vomiting spell" secondary to hyperemesis of pregnancy. Evaluation in the emergency room identified a recurrent right pneumothorax. The patient's pulmonary symptoms were less pronounced and it was not considered large enough on chest x-ray to warrant treatment with a chest tube.
A third small right pneumothorax developed at the 10th gestational week that responded well to conservative management and, again, no chest tube was required.
However at ~19 weeks' gestation, the patient sustained a fourth pneumothorax with symptoms similar to that of the first. Chest x-ray revealed approximately 50% collapse of the right lung; she agreed to referral for definitive surgical management. Thoracoscopic excision of right apical lung blebs and mechanical pleurodesis proceeded without complication. The remainder of pregnancy was unremarkable and she was delivered (vaginally) of a viable female infant at term. Of note, the infant was diagnosed with postaxial polydactyly of both hands and one foot. Speech therapy identified "limited vocab