A 40-year-old female, non smoker was referred by her family physician with migraine-type headache complaints and mild nasal congestion. The pain was located over the forehead and behind the left eye. Headaches occurred once every 3 weeks, triggered by weather and barometric changes with mild improvement during the menstruation. The duration of the headache was 3 days approximately and the pain was not associated with nausea, photophobia, vertigo or tinnitus. Its intensity was 9 on a 0–10 visual analogue scale.
The patient reported nephrotic syndrome at the age of 3, for which she had been on prednizolone for 10 years. A history of recurrent episodes of rhinosinusitis was also obtained.
Nasal endoscopy revealed a mild septal deviation, a right concha bullosa of the middle turbinate and a paradoxically curved middle turbinate on the left side. Coronal computed tomography (CT) scan confirmed the above findings and additionally revealed a superior concha bullosa and mild mucosal disease on the left side (Fig. ).
The patient underwent a detailed laboratory examination to exclude any other possible causes of headache. Whole blood cell count, urinalysis, thyroxin level, biochemical tests, tumor markers, as well as Mantoux test and monotest were normal. Chest radiography, electrocardiography, and ultrasonography of the thyroid gland were also normal. Biochemical and serologic tests of hepatic dysfunction were negative. Serologic tests of complement fixation titers of the plasma antibodies against various common viruses were performed and were found normal as well.
The patient underwent nasal rigid endoscopy after application of local anesthetic and decongestant, which revealed the presence of a large superior concha in close contact with the nasal septum (Fig. ). Direct application of local anesthetic (1% tetracaine hydrochloride solution) at the point of contact between the superior concha and the nasal septum improved headache by 4 points (score 5 at the scale of 0–10). Injection of local anesthetic