A 45 years old male patient, attended the neurology emergency department on 3rd January 2016 due to right limb numbness for 6 days and convulsive seizure for 3 days. Six days before the hospital visit, the patient experienced numbness in the right upper limb and instability while holding without obvious incentive but did not seek immediate medical intervention. Three days before admission, the patient experienced convulsive seizure in the right upper limb while remaining conscious, which was relieved after 1 min. Similar attacks occurred intermittently on six further occasions. The patient had a 3-year history of hypertension with the highest blood pressure being 180/110 mmHg. He also had a history of smoking and drinking lasting more than 30 years. He was born and has always lived in Beijing, with no history of contact with infested water, infectious zone, other radioactive substances or toxins. Upon admission, the patient was examined to be obese with no subcutaneous nodules. Neurological examinations showed full level muscle strength in the right upper limb, accompanied with diminished needling response. Emergency head CT scan (2016-1-1) showed lower density in the left parietal lobe. As the patient manifested as an acute onset of right limb weakness and hemiparesis,with low density lesions in the left occipital lobe on CT and a history of hypertension, the patient was hospitalised with a preliminary diagnosis of acute stroke and secondary epilepsy.
After hospitalisation, head MRI scan (2016-1-4) displayed a lesion in the left parietal lobe of unknown nature. After enhancement in the magnetic field, a larger area of oedema was found around the lesion in the left parietal lobe which could indicate glioma or other inflammatory diseases. Since the nature of the brain lesion did not match the characteristics of common cerebrovascular diseases, intracranial angiography DSA was used but found no obvious vascular abnormalities or stenosis. Further examinations including lumbar puncture, immune rheumatoid factors and parasite antibody detections were carried out. A raised cerebrospinal fluid pressure was found to (215 mm H2O) with no red or