A 25-year-old white male smoker patient was admitted to our hospital due to fever and right lower quadrant abdominal pain. Six years previously he suffered from perianal fistulas and underwent perianal surgery including drainage and fistulectomy. Two years later CD of the terminal ileum was diagnosed with an upper gastrointestinal barium contrast study and an endoscopic examination (colonoscopy with multiple biopsies). The patient was treated with mesalazine and was in clinical remission most of the time, except for occasional episodes of mild watery diarrhea without fever.
Two months prior to admission the patient had visited the outpatient clinic with abdominal pain and diarrhoea. A physical examination revealed a palpable mass in the right lower quadrant and laboratory analysis showed elevation of acute phase reactants. A gastrointestinal barium contrast was performed and confirmed the presence of a stenosis in the terminal ileum. The patient was treated with oral prednisone (0.5 mg/kg followed by a standard weaning strategy), to which he responded well.
Two months later the patient was attended to in the emergency department with a seven day history of abdominal pain, fever and malaise. At the time he was still taking 5 mg of prednisone by month per day. A physical examination showed a heart rate of 120/min, blood pressure of 130/65 mmHg and temperature of 39°C. His skin, chest and heart were normal. The abdomen was soft, non-distended, slightly tender in the right lower quadrant and with hypoactive bowel sounds. A rectal examination gave a normal result. Laboratory results on admission are listed in table . Thrombophilia studies were normal and included fasting plasma levels of protein C, protein S, anti-thrombin III, lupus anticoagulant, anti-cardiolipin and anti-phospholipid antibodies, antinuclear antibodies, and genetic testing for the factor V Leiden. Chest and abdominal X-rays were normal. An ultrasound abdominal examination revealed multiple hypoechoic nodular lesions in both lobes of the liver suggestive of abscesses.
Abdominopelvic contrast