A 79-year-old male was referred in March 2003 with a lump on the left side of his neck. The patient had noted a sudden increase in the size of the lump over the preceding two months. He did not report any neck pressure symptoms, weight loss or anorexia. His past history included right partial thyroidectomy for a solitary nodule (colloid goitre) in 1978 and repair of abdominal aortic aneurysm in 1994. He had suffered myocardial infarction in 1995 and had an episode of acute coronary insufficiency in January 2003. His recent coronary angiograms showed an occluded left anterior descending artery and echocardiogram revealed good left ventricular function. He was a non-smoker and consumed alcohol in moderation. He had been taking warfarin, diltiazem MR, lisinopril, uniphyllin, glyceryl trinitrate tablets and buccal suscard.
On examination he had left sided goitre extending superiorly into the posterior triangle and inferiorly into the retrosternal space, with variable consistency. The trachea was deviated to the right and there was cervical lymphadenopathy on the left side. Systemic examination was unremarkable and fine needle aspiration of thyroid gland showed presence of Hürthle cells. Computerised tomographic (CT) scan with contrast enhancement (figure &) of the neck and thorax revealed large left sided thyroid goitre with significant mediastinal extension. It showed mixed attenuation with foci of calcification peripherally. There was a 3 cm complex mass on the left side of the neck, posterior to the carotid sheath structures and deep to the sternomastoid, indicative of lymph node metastases. Thyroid profile and routine blood investigations were unremarkable.
Based on the above findings radical surgery was planned. On exploration of the neck we confirmed left goitre with intrathoracic extension and enlarged lymph nodes under the sternocleidomastoid close to the jugulodigastric muscle and surrounding the carotid sheath. There was no remnant thyroid tissue seen on the right side following the previous thyroid surgery.