A 30 year-old non-smoking Caucasian G3P1011 presented for initial prenatal assessment at six weeks gestation. The conception was established without medical assistance. The patient had no significant medical or surgical history. She underwent an uncomplicated curettage for missed abortion four years before presentation and an uneventful term vaginal delivery occurred two years later.
Transvaginal ultrasound at seven weeks gestation revealed a dichorionic-diamniotic twin pregnancy. At 18 weeks gestation no growth discordance was noted, but cervical length was two cm with funneling. Based on these findings, the patient was counseled about maternal and neonatal risks associated with twin pregnancy, particularly the risk of preterm labor due to cervical shortening. Although rescue cerclage was offered to the patient, this option was declined. She was therefore placed on bedrest for two weeks with follow-up ultrasonography for assessment of cervical length.
At 192/7 weeks gestation the patient experienced abdominal cramping and non-purulent blood-tinged vaginal discharge. The patient remained afebrile. She was hospitalized and placed on bed rest in Trendelenburg position after sterile speculum exam found the cervix two cm dilated with protruding "hourglass membranes".
One day later, amniotic membranes had fully retracted and were no longer visible above a closed cervix. Microscopic examination of vaginal fluid found occasional clue cells. External monitoring identified occasional uterine contractions; heart rates at ~150/min were measured for both twins. The patient was again counseled about the implications of preterm labor at this early stage, and the uncertainty of preventing further cervical dilation. After consideration of all therapeutic options (including cerclage), the patient elected tocolysis with a view to save her pregnancy. A 4 g loading dose of magnesium sulfate was administered intravenously, followed by a maintenance dose of 2 g/h. Oral metronidazole (500 mg) was given every 8 h, and 500 mg ampicillin was given intravenously every 6 h after a 2 gm loading dose according to