A 75-year-old diabetic male presented with dull upper abdominal pain of one-week duration. He noticed swelling in left upper abdomen. There was no history of vomiting, fever or gastrointestinal bleeding. He had no significant medical or family history and was non-smoker and non-alcoholic. Physical examination showed a 14 × 10 cm mass palpable in epigastrium and left hypochondrium with minimal intrinsic mobility.
Routine biochemical investigations were normal. Ultrasonogram and CT-scan of the abdomen showed large heterogeneous mass of 13 × 10 cm extending from the tail of pancreas to anterior pararenal space, lesser sac to gastrosplenic ligament enveloping the posterior aspect of fundus, body and greater curvature (Figure ). One day after the admission, examination showed reduction in the size of palpable mass to 8 × 6 cm size which was not associated with aggravation of the symptoms. Ultrasonography of the abdomen was repeated which showed reduction in the diameter of mass to 8 × 8 cm. Upper endoscopy showed large bulge in fundus and corpus of the stomach posteriorly with an opening in the posterior part of the corpus with edematous margin with dissemination of serous fluid and necrotic material in to the stomach (Figure ). Fluid analysis was normal for CEA and CA 19-9. Biopsy taken from the edge of the opening showed bundles of spindle cells with elongated nuclei and tumor cells (Figure ) and was strongly positive for CD117 immunohistochemical examination, diagnostic of gastrointestinal stromal tumor (Figure ). At laparotomy a large tumor was seen arising from the posterior wall of stomach measuring 8 × 8 cm, which has ruptured into the gastric lumen, and was infiltrating the upper pole of spleen, anterior capsule of pancreas and mesocolon. He underwent total gastrectomy and splenectomy with esophagojejunostomy, and segmental transverse colectomy. Histopathology of resected specimen showed large spindle cell GIST with >5/50 HPF (high-power field) mitotic activity. Postoperative period was uneventful. Postoperatively he