The patient was a 60-year-old man who had been suffering from isolated chronic non-productive cough for about 1 year. He discontinued smoking 9 months before the first visit following development of this cough and had never taken an ACE-I. Although he did not complain of heartburn and other symptoms suggestive of GERD, endoscopic assessment of the esophagus revealed reflux esophagitis (Los Angeles classification Grade B). He had had no respiratory infections during the 8-week period preceding the first visit. No abnormal shadows were noted on chest or paranasal sinus X-rays and chest CT scan. Cutoff points in testing of bronchial hyperresponsiveness and cough reflex hypersensitivity were set at below 10000 μg/ml [] and 3.9 μM []. Airway reversibility to inhaled β2 agonist was 6.5%, and testing for bronchial responsiveness to methacholine and cough reflex sensitivity revealed no hyperresponsiveness (29053 μg/ml) and no hypersensitivity (500 μM). Cell fractionation of bronchoalveolar lavage fluid revealed percentages of macrophages, lymphocytes, neutrophils, and eosinophils of 91%, 7%, 1.7%, and 0.3%, respectively. Cough was evaluated based on frequency and intensity as follows: 10 = cough level at the first visit, 5 = half the level at the first visit, 0 = none. Neither bronchodilator therapy nor anti-inflammatory therapy improved the cough. PPI was given after discontinuing bronchodilator and anti-inflammatory therapy. The cough was markedly improved 2 weeks after initiation of PPI (cough level 1), but returned nearly to pretreatment level 3 weeks after discontinuation of PPI (cough level 7, cough sensitivity 62.5 μM). On 24-h esophageal pH monitoring performed prior to re-initiation of PPI to determine the reason cough improved with PPI, the probe was positioned in the lower esophagus 5 cm above the upper border of the lower esophageal sphincter. Acid reflux in the esophagus was considered present if pH was 4 or less []. Some cough and acid reflux were observed, little cough