A 53-year-old female patient who had been suffering for ten years from atypical facial pain combined with a partial facial spasm was referred to our outpatient clinic.
She presented with continuous distorsions of the mimic musculature in the region of the lower left lip, which had appeared following severe osteomyelitis of the left side of the mandible that had been treated surgically. For several weeks following the operation the patient experienced hypesthesia in the left mandibular region and skin. Thereafter, constant, disturbing spasms of the mimic musculature occurred combined with dyskinesia and deep spasmodic pain attacks located in her lower left lip region. In addition, a distinct cutaneous erythema appeared in the region of the dyskinesia (figure ).
The patient reported that pain attacks occurred daily immediately after awakening in the morning, continued during the day without any improvement and subsided only at bedtime.
There had been no satisfactory response to various neurological or dental therapy attempts nor to acupuncture. Only therapy with carbamazepine had brought a slight and transient relief of her symptoms.
The patient felt herself immensely restricted by her symptoms and was socially and professionally disabled. She had had to retire because of the intolerable pain attacks, and reported having suicidal thoughts from time to time.
During the following years she detected alleviation points in her left hand and behind the left ear with which she was able to stop the convulsions and the pain as long as pressure was applied to the points (figure ).
The patient had had no history of movement disorders such as hemifacial spasms nor of allergy, smoking or alcoholism. She had no history of medication except for carbamazepine.
On physical examination, no anatomic disorders, infections or tumors were found except for a discrete septum deviation. We observed continuous spasms in the region of her left lower lip, accompanied by an intense eczema in this region. She was able to stop the spasms and the pain by pressing the points on her hand or behind the ear.
After the