A previously healthy 33 year old woman was admitted to the acute medical care unit with a two day history of feeling lethargic and unwell. She was a non smoker and did not drink alcohol. She had developed severe continuous pain in the right upper limb with no specific aggravating or relieving factors and associated with severe weakness. She had had three episodes of vomiting and diarrhoea and had been treated by her general practitioner with paracetamol for flu-like symptoms for three days. On the morning of the day of admission she had noticed that her lips and tongue were swollen and she felt short of breath. She was given intramuscular adrenaline by the ambulance staff for a threatened airway and was transferred to the acute medical unit for further evaluation and management.
On admission she had pulse rate of 110/min, respiratory rate of 22/min and was febrile with a temperature of 38.9 deg c. She was agitated, restless and incontinent. Three hours later she started to develop swelling of the face. The facial skin was intact and there was no erythema, rash or blisters. Examination of the oral cavity revealed an oedematous tongue, pharynx and buccal mucosa with no detectable septic focus. There was no neck stiffness, no localising neurological signs and her GCS was 14. There was no local rise of temperature and soft tissue palpation of the head and neck was normal with no localised tenderness and no palpable lymph nodes or surgical emphysema. Air entry was equal on both sides but there were diffusely scattered rhonchi. Cardiovascular system examination was normal. Abdominal examination revealed a localised tenderness in the left iliac fossa. Pelvic and perineal examination by the gynaecologist was normal. Right upper limb examination was negative for any soft tissue or skeletal injuries. There were no signs of cellulitis, erythema or blisters. Palpation of the soft tissues was non tender, with no signs of grimacing or withdrawl and consistency was soft with no signs of compartment syndrome. Active movements at shoulder,