A 27 year old female presented with a one year history of progressively worsening epigastric pain, reflux, and fatigue. She was initially treated with acid suppression therapy by her primary care physician, which temporarily relieved her symptoms. However, her symptoms became refractory to medication and she noted the onset of dysphagia. She reported a remote history of bulimia nervosa (BN) of approximately one year duration at the age of 17. She reported episodes of binge eating and self-induced vomiting, at least once a day. She denied any further history of bulimia since that time, which was corroborated by her mother. The patient reported smoking approximately 10 cigarettes per day since the age of 20, and had recently quit. She denied alcohol and drug abuse, and had no family history of malignancy.
On physical examination the patient's weight was 102 lbs (BMI 18.7). There were no physical findings suggestive of chronic bulimia such as dorsal finger calluses, dental erosion, or parotid enlargement. She denied recent weight loss. The patient had mild epigastric tenderness on palpation of the abdomen. The remainder of her examination was within normal limits. Routine laboratory tests were normal
Upper gastrointestinal endoscopy revealed a 10 mm ulcerated lesion with diffuse erythema near the gastroesophageal (GE) junction (Figure ). Biopsies from this area demonstrated poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma (Figure ). Endoscopic ultrasound revealed a 20 mm × 20 mm, hypoechoic, non-circumferential mass at the GE junction with evidence of serosal invasion, but no nodal disease. CT scan revealed no evidence of nodal or metastatic disease. The patient was clinically staged as having T3 N0 M0 disease (Stage IIa).
The patient elected to undergo neoadjuvant chemoradiation with oxaliplatin, 5-FU, and Cetuximab with concurrent radiation to a dose of 5040 cGy. She had j-tube placement prior to treatment. She required one admission for fluids and nutritional support during treatment. Six weeks after completing neoadjuvant chemoradiation