A 43 year old lady presented in 2005 with wheeze, shortness of breath and pain in the right back. She had no other symptoms of note and was an ex-smoker. The patient had had an ovarian cystectomy in 2004 which was complicated by fistula formation requiring several laparotomies.
At bronchoscopy, obstruction by a large right middle lobe tumour was noted and biopsy confirmed an adenocarcinoma. Subsequent PET-CT scanning revealed extensive soft tissue abnormalities in the right paravertebral region posteriorly and lymphadenopathy in the subcarinal, contralateral and pretracheal regions. The final staging was T2N3M0 (IIIB).
The patient was enrolled in the AVAiL trial (AVAstin In Lung cancer – Trial No. BO17704) – a study in which the primary objective is to evaluate safety and efficacy of two doses of bevacizumab in combination with gemcitabine and cisplatin and determine the optimal dose of bevacizumab. The trial is a randomised, double-blind, multicentre, 2-stage, phase III study of bevacizumab and gemcitabine/cisplatin versus placebo and gemcitabine/cisplatin in patients with advanced or recurrent non-small cell lung carcinoma who have not received prior chemotherapy. The patient was randomised to receive gemcitabine/cisplatin and bevacizumab on the maintenance arm.
Five cycles of treatment (carboplatin was substituted for cisplatin at cycle 3 due to toxicity) were completed in March 2006 with partial response. At cycle 6 (eighteen weeks into treatment), marked gum recession was noted (fig ). The patient was then unblinded and found to be on the continuation arm of bevacizumab. Treatment was continued with no interventions and the patient remained entirely asymptomatic.
In September 2006 (ten months after commencing treatment), the patient was noted to have worsening periodontal disease (fig ). She had completed 18 cycles of bevacizumab at this stage. The patient completed treatment in December 2006 and the periodontal disease has since remained stable.
This case is, to the best of our knowledge, the