A 40 year old obese African woman (weight 135 kg) who was 34 weeks pregnant injured her right leg following a fall in the bathroom. Previous medical history included thalassaemia trait and severe bipolar affective disorder which was being treated with Lithium Carbonate and prochlorperazine. She was a non-smoker and did not drink alcohol. On examination the leg was swollen, slightly deformed with the skin intact and there was no neurovascular deficit or evidence of compartment syndrome. Radiographs of the tibia revealed a displaced oblique mid-shaft fracture of the right tibia, 42-A2.1 using the AO classification (fig. ).
The initial plan was non-operative treatment until postpartum, after which the fracture would be stabilised by an intra-medullary nail. She was admitted to hospital and a below knee backslab followed by a full Sarmiento cast applied. An above knee plaster could not be applied due to thigh bulk. The patient was allowed to touch weight bear for nursing purposes. Our main concern regarding the non-operative management in a plaster cast was the increased risk of developing a deep vein thrombosis. At 38 weeks of pregnancy, an emergency caesarean section was performed and a healthy baby delivered.
Prior to the planned surgery in the post-natal period, it was noticed that the patient was able to mobilise with full weight bearing through the plaster without pain. Clinical examination revealed no pain or movement at the fracture site indicating clinical union. Radiographs at four weeks (fig. ) showed satisfactory alignment and significant callus bridging all four cortices indicating radiological union. The patient was allowed to fully mobilise as tolerated in an air cast boot and reviewed in four weeks with a further radiograph that showed a consolidated fully healed fracture (fig. ).
Review two years post injury showed a united fracture (fig. ). The patient was asymptomatic with no clinical deformity and a full range of pain free motion in her ankle and knee.