A 45-year-old woman was admitted with acute onset of short-term memory loss, intermittent headaches, dizzy spells and an obvious change in personality which had progressed over a ten day period. Intermittent vomiting, confusion and unsteadiness were also reported. These symptoms worsened over the three days prior to admission. Her past medical history included an episode of herpes simplex virus infection about one month earlier. A non-smoker, she consumed alcohol in moderation.
On examination, she had disorientation of time and place and her mini mental score was found to be 2/10. Confusion with nominal aphasia was also noted. She was apyrexial. Cardiovascular, respiratory and gastrointestinal system examination was unremarkable. Neurological examination showed normal power and tone in both arms and legs with normal symmetrical deep tendon reflexes. Her gait, coordination, cranial nerve and fundus examination were normal.
Investigations revealed a normal full blood count and unremarkable routine biochemical tests and inflammatory markers. Contrast enhanced CT of the brain showed low attenuation areas adjacent to the anterior ends of both thalami. Appearances were reported as an unusual form of cerebral infarctions and it was suggested that other pathology could not be ruled out.
Examination of CSF revealed isolated lymphocytosis. Glucose and protein were normal. Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR) tests for herpes simplex virus and varicella zoster were negative.
Electroencephalogram (EEG) recordings showed intermittent low frequency activity suggesting focal abnormality of cortical function, probably associated with a vascular or structural lesion but no clear evidence of encephalitis or epileptiform activity. On MRI scan (Figure ) of the head there were bilateral symmetrical lesions in both thalami giving high signal changes on the T2 weighted and proton density images. In addition there were asymmetrical multiple high signal areas on T2 weighted images in both cerebellar hemispheres. CNS lymphoma and demyelination were two of the possible differential diagnoses for the MRI appearances. Subsequently performed vertebral and carotid MR angiograms were