A 72-year-old man was admitted with right flank pain and massive hematuria with clot retention. The patient was a heavy smoker, and did not report any history of trauma, recent medical intervention or known lithiasis. He denied any bleeding disorder and was not taking any medications. His blood pressure was normal and so were his blood count, biochemical and coagulation parameters. A rinsing catheter was introduced and the hematuria resolved within a few days. Ultrasonographic examination of the kidneys and bladder was unremarkable.
On a subsequent CT scan, a small soft tissue mass was depicted within the right renal pelvis. The lesion did not significantly enhance after injection of contrast medium and there was no dilatation of the affected renal unit. There was no evidence of urinary tract lithiasis or other pathology (Figure ).
The CT scan could not differentiate between a blood clot and a tumor. In the presence of a filling defect in the renal pelvis, although slightly enhancing, the presence of an urothelial lesion had to be excluded. Urine cytology was negative. A cystoscopy with advancement of a ureteral catheter into the right pelvis was carried out in order to selectively obtain a sample for urine cytology and perform a retrograde study. Cystoscopy and upper tract cytology were both negative for a high-grade bladder tumor. The retrograde study of the right ureter and pelvicaliceal system did not demonstrate any filling defect in the right renal pelvis and calyces. Based on these findings, the CT findings were attributed to a blood clot in the right renal pelvis and the investigation proceeded with renal arteriography.
Selective right renal arteriography was carried out shortly following the resolution of the hematuria, and demonstrated an area of tortuous, coiled vascular channels with early filling of the renal vein within two seconds after the start of the injection(Figure ). Therefore, a right peripelvic renal AVM was diagnosed and a transcatheter superselective embolization of the lesion with the use of coils was performed successfully during the same session (Fig