A 47-year-old man had started approximately 10 years ago as truck driver delivering fish and other seafood stored on crushed ice. He was in charge of the final quality check of the delivered seafood which included handling of single fish of various species and crustaceans. Plastic skirt and long-sleeved gloves were provided by the employer and were initially invariably used when handling raw seafood. But over the years with increased workload and pressure of time, upon arrival at the client in his rush he frequently did not take the time to change and therefore often times did not wear protecting clothes leading to increased direct contact with fish, crustaceans, the storage ice, and ice water.
Two years prior to presentation at our allergy clinic, the patient first developed itchiness, redness and swelling of the conjunctivae and eyelids one to two minutes after a single drop of ice water splashed into his eye. Although thereafter he tried to strictly avoid skin and mucosal contact, he developed several times within minutes after incidental direct contact to fish, crustaceans, or the storage ice pruritus, erythema and urticaria restricted to the contact sites on the hands and forearms. At one instance with rather intensive contact (carrying a full container by pressing it against the lower abdomen) he developed not only wheals at the contact sites but generalized urticaria. These symptoms subsided within two hours not requiring specific therapy.
One year later when consuming a zander/Sander filet which he had been offered by a client, he suffered from generalized urticaria with facial angioedema, nausea, vomiting and defecation. Emergency treatment with intravenously applied fluids, H1-antihistamines and corticosteroids lead to complete resolution of anaphylaxis symptoms within two hours. Previously, he had only sporadically consumed seafood, which he had tolerated until then without symptoms. After a second episode of generalized urticaria and angioedema after tasting a small amount