A 73-year-old male with edentulous maxilla was referred to the University Department of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery of the “Evaggelismοs” general hospital due to a migrated implant into the right maxillary sinus. The patient suffered from chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and therefore he had quitted smoking. Five years ago he underwent dental rehabilitation with the placement of six implants in the maxilla and four in the mandible. In less than 2 months after initial placement, all implants had failed to osseointegrate. A year and a half later the patient underwent guided bone regeneration with bovine-derived xenograft and 7 months after this point, another 10 implants were inserted into both the maxilla and mandible. Two months later, all implants had once again failed to osseointegrate. During the attempt of removal by the dentist, one of the implants was displaced into the maxillary sinus, without the dentist being able to retrieve it. The patient then visited another dentist, who could not either remove the migrated implant.
Upon arrival to our clinic, a full medical and dental record was retrieved from the patient, and he was scheduled for surgical removal of the implant. Prior to operation, the patient underwent a radiographic examination with water’s X-ray (Fig. ), as well as CBCT examination (Fig. ) which confirmed implant migration and revealed its exact position inside the maxillary sinus.
Surgical procedure initiated with local anesthesia by injecting xylocaine 1% andepinephrine 1:100,000 solution in the soft tissues involving the right half of the maxilla. After a crestal incision, a full-thickness mucoperiosteal flap was raised, exposing the anterior-lateral wall of the maxilla in an area extending from canine to molar region. Using a high-speed rotary instrument under sterile saline solution irrigation, a rectangular window was created in the anterior-lateral maxillary wall. The implant was detected through the bony window and captured by a mosquito forceps (Fig. ). The mucoperi