A 71-year-old Chinese man who was previously healthy presented to our clinic with a 3-month history of episodic cough with the production of thick yellow sputum. This was accompanied by generalized fatigue, subjective fevers, weight loss and night sweats. Symptoms improved somewhat with over-the-counter antipyretics and cough suppressants. One month prior to the visit, he noticed streaks of bright red hemoptysis, which prompted him to seek medical care. Shortly after an initial chest radiograph (CXR) showed a left upper lobe cavity, a finding later confirmed by computed tomography (CT) scan (Figure ), he was referred to the chest clinic for further evaluation.
The patient was born and raised in China, where he had lived and worked as a veterinarian for most of his life until he moved to the US in 1981. He had a negative purified protein derivative upon arrival to the US. He had no prior medical problems and was not taking any medication at the time of his visit. He denied any history of alcohol, tobacco or recreational drug use and had no knowledge of sick contacts. On physical examination, he appeared younger than his stated age and in no apparent distress. His examination was relevant only for bronchial breath sounds over the left upper hemithorax.
His CXR and CT scan showed a well-defined left upper lobe cavitary lesion with associated contralateral mediastinal lymphadenopathy. Due to the suspicious appearance of the lesion, a positron emission tomography (PET) scan was ordered along with induced sputum for cultures. Diagnostic bronchoscopy or percutaneous needle biopsy were discussed with the patient and his family, but he did not want any invasive tests. The PET scan showed increased metabolic activity in the left upper lobe lesion as well as in areas of lymph nodes in the contralateral mediastinum; in addition, an area in the left lobe of the thyroid also showed a strong signal which prompted a referral to the thyroid clinic.
During this time, the first sputum sample grew an acid