A 72-year-old man with chronic alcohol abuse and hypertension, and who had been a smoker, had had past surgical interventions for atherosclerotic vascular disease (bilateral iliofemoral bypass and abdominal aortic aneurysm repair). In April 2001, the patient presented with severe chest pain due to a descending thoracic aortic aneurysm. At that time, there was no lung abnormality revealed by a computed tomography (CT) scan of the chest. A thoracotomy was performed and a Dacron prosthesis was inserted surgically into the wall of the aneurysm and he had an uncomplicated postoperative course.
Six months later, the patient was hospitalized because of weight loss, night sweats, a dry cough and progressive dyspnea for the past 4 weeks. Chest radiography and CT showed bilateral interstitial lung infiltrates with miliary appearance. No cavitation was documented. A diagnostic bronchoscopy was performed. A Ziehl-Neelsen examination of the lower respiratory tract samples was positive for acid-fast bacilli. PCR and culture of the bronchoalveolar lavage fluid revealed the presence of M. tuberculosis. Hematogenous dissemination of M. tuberculosis was confirmed by a concomitant positive urine culture. Treatment with rifampicin and isoniazid for 6 months, plus pyrazinamide and ethambutol during the first 2 months was given as directly observed therapy, since the strain isolated in culture was susceptible to all major antimycobacterial drugs.
Three weeks later, the patient presented with massive hemoptysis and severe bronchoaspiration requiring intubation and cardiopulmonary resuscitation. Repeated bronchoscopies documented persistent bleeding from the left lower lobe bronchus. Despite the possible occurrence of a fistula between the aorta and the bronchial tree, the treatment was medical since a chest CT scan did not confirm the presence of a fistula. As bleeding resolved spontaneously, hemoptysis was suspected to be only due to lung tuberculosis and not to aortic involvement. Consequently, the patient was not referred for angiography.
Two months later, the patient presented with a recurrence of hemoptysis of about 300 ml while coughing. Bronchoscopy showed blood clots