A 78-year-old man who was a chronic smoker presented to the maxillofacial department at a district general hospital with a 6-week history of difficulty in swallowing solids together with pain in his pharynx.
On examination, he was noted to have a 3 × 2 cm solitary pedunculated lesion on the right side of the anterior two-thirds of his tongue crossing the midline. His tongue mobility was normal and there was no palpable cervical lymphadenopathy.
Systematic examination of chest, abdomen and heart were normal. The lesion was biopsied and initially reported as a primary squamous cell carcinoma with some clear cell changes. His blood tests including renal functions were normal. His case was discussed in the head and neck cancer multidisciplinary team (MDT) meeting and subtotal glossectomy was planned after a staging MRI (magnetic resonant imaging) scan followed by adjuvant radiotherapy to the head and neck region. While awaiting an MRI, he presented to the hospital with severe pain in his oral cavity and difficulty in swallowing. His tongue lesion had doubled in size in a matter of two weeks and was now protruding outside the mouth (Figure ). It was considered unusual for primary squamous cell carcinoma of tongue to behave like that. The pathology was therefore reviewed at the same MDT meeting and this time the lesion was reported as partly squamous epithelium covered by fibromuscular tissue showing infiltration by a carcinoma, seen in the nests with extensive clear cell changes. The differential diagnosis was considered to be squamous cell carcinoma with clear cell changes, metastatic salivary gland neoplasm or metastases from RCC. It was decided to arrange an urgent CT scan and to debulk the tongue lesion surgically, to improve his symptoms. The patient had not described any suspicious urinary symptoms.
A CT scan of the neck, chest and abdomen revealed a 4.7-cm sized irregular mass in the left kidney suggestive of RCC (Figure ). There was no local extension and the left renal vein was clear. A solitary tongue lesion with no