A 51-year-old woman was referred to the ENT department with a 2-week history of a lump on the right side of her neck. There was no history of change to her voice or dysphagia.
She is a para 4 with all normal vaginal deliveries and has had normal cervical smears in the past. Her periods were regular and she gave no history of intermenstrual or post-coital bleeding. She smoked about 20–30 cigarettes per day.
On further questioning in the clinic, she gave a history of increasing lethargy for the past 3 months and was also unable to report to work due to severe back pain.
Five years before the present episode, she reported feeling unwell with significant weight loss and heavy periods. She was found to be anaemic and was given five units of blood. She was investigated for a possible colon cancer which proved to be negative. She was referred to a Menstrual Disorder Clinic but failed to attend the clinic twice.
On examination, multiple cervical lymph nodes were palpable on both sides of the neck. Ultrasound scan of the neck revealed two large supraclavicular lymph nodes with several abnormal looking lymph nodes in the right carotid chain.
An X-ray of the chest showed no abnormality. Fine needle aspiration of the lymph nodes yielded squamous carcinoma cells.
Metastatic squamous cell carcinoma of an unknown primary tumour was suspected and investigations were performed to find a possible primary site. Clinical examination and endoscopy of the upper digestive tract did not yield an obvious primary tumour in the nasopharynx, larynx and hypopharynx.
Computerised Tomography (CT) of the neck, chest and abdomen revealed marked mediastinal and para-aortic lymphadenopathy suggestive of spread of the known squamous cell carcinoma. There was evidence of dilatation of the collecting system bilaterally with dilatation of the proximal ureters suggesting an obstruction within the pelvis.
A Positron Emission Tomography-CT (PET-CT) scan was performed which showed markedly increased uptake in the right cervical