A 33-year-old female was admitted to Neurology Department with a complaint of weakness, hypoesthesia, paresis and painless constant involuntary muscle spasms of the left upper extremity. Her complaints started 4 months ago, after she fell upon her left arm. At that time there appeared a collection and oedema on the left arm elbow joint. In a month, she experienced weakness, sensory deficits and minimal muscle spasms in the left ulnar nerve innervation area. Cervical magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) was normal. Electromyographic evaluation (EMG) revealed a conduction delay and/or a conduction block with a neurogenic involvement displaying partial denervation in muscles innervated by ulnar nerve. Collection was evacuated by decompression surgery and ulnar nerve was released. After the operation weakness and sensory deficits did not improve. Involuntary movements in the left ulnar nerve innervated muscles, than increased and spread to the the whole arm. She was referred to our clinic. Her family history was unremarkable. She was not on any medication, she did not smoke or drink alcohol. Neurological examination revealed spontaneous synchronized, involuntary myoclonic jerks in the proximal part of the left upper extremity during action and at rest (see Additional file ).
Myoclonus seen in the agonist and antagonist muscles were persisting during sleep as her parents noted. It was provoked by movements that belonged to the affected muscle groups but there was no response to tactile stimulus. Minimal muscle weakness and sensory deficit in the biceps, triceps and brachioradialis muscles were noted.
Routine biochemical laboratory investigations were within normal limits. Secondary causes of myoclonus such as infectious disease (HIV, VDRL, HSV, hepatitis B and C, syphilis) were excluded. Blood calcium, copper, seruloplasmin levels, hepatic and renal function tests, thyroid hormone levels, sedimentation rates, cerebrospinal fluid findings and routine EEG and cranial MRI scanning were normal. Computerized tomography (CT) of the left arm, performed due to the trauma of left upper extremity, revealed