A 44-year old African American female who worked as a phlebotomist presented to her primary care physician complaining of mild shortness of breath and a 4-pillow orthopnea for many years (>10 years). She was a non-smoker, and maintained a healthy weight of 142 pounds for her 68" height. Her past medical history was significant only for uterine fibroids, for which she had undergone a myomectomy. She had conceived six healthy children, and the remainder of her family had no health problems. A subsequent chest x-ray and CT scan revealed a large mediastinal mass which occupied the majority of the right thoracic cavity and further extended across the anterior mediastinum into the left thoracic cavity (figure ). The posteroinferior portion of the mass revealed several areas of dystrophic ring-type calcifications within a field of scattered dense soft tissue elements. These were thought to possibly represent a pleural-based liposarcoma, lipoma, teratoma, teratocarcinoma, or invasive thymoma of the anterior mediastinum. The mass shifted the heart and mediastinal vascular structures to the left of midline.
In order to remove this large intrathoracic mass, the patient was explored through a transverse sternothoracotomy (clam-shell incision) to allow complete access to both pleural spaces and the mediastinum. Upon exposure of the anterior mediastinum, a large mass was visualized crossing this area and extending into both thoracic cavities (figure ). The mass further extended into the left thoracic cavity and displaced the lower lobe of the left lung. The gross appearance was that of a thinly encapsulated, dull mass with a pale yellow color which had a smooth surface and was soft to the touch. After a period of blunt dissection and manipulation, the entire mass was successfully removed en-bloc (figure ). The tumor weighed a total of 4,320 grams and measured 34 × 28 × 11 centimeters.
The patient's postoperative course was complicated by the development of several partially gangrenous and necrotic toes bilaterally