A 34 year old Persian woman, gravida 1, para 0, presented at 22 weeks of pregnancy with a two week history of left hip pain with no apparent precipitating event. Her past medical history included mild Multiple Sclerosis from which she was asymptomatic. She did not smoke or drink alcohol, had no history of corticosteroid, anticonvulsant or anticoagulant use and was not on any other medication. Clinical examination was unremarkable and no investigations were deemed appropriate. The working diagnosis at this stage was non-specific hip pain related to pregnancy and supportive measures were instituted.
Over the following 12 weeks her hip pain worsened, and she started to experience pain in the contra lateral hip. Again there was no history of a traumatic event. Because of her pregnancy imaging of her hips was avoided. By 36 weeks of pregnancy she was unable to weight bear and became wheelchair bound. Pain in her hips and limitation of motion meant that a normal vaginal delivery was impossible; hence she underwent a caesarean delivery of a healthy baby at full term.
She was brought to the attention of the orthopaedic team when plain radiographs (see figure ) following delivery revealed a displaced intracapsular femoral neck fracture on the left and a valgus impacted right intracapsular femoral neck fracture on the right. The radiographs also revealed considerable osteopaenia. MRI (see figure ) revealed these fractures, with reduced signal on T1 and increased signal on T2 in the femoral necks in keeping with TOP.
She underwent closed reduction and internal fixation of the left hip. The right hip was internally fixed in situ. Two hole 135 degree dynamic hip screws were used in order to provide sufficient stability to allow immediate mobilisation despite bilateral fractures. Difficulty was encountered in ensuring that the threads of the dynamic hip screw had crossed the fracture site in the left hip as the level of the fracture was high in the femoral neck, consequently the tip of the implant had to be implanted close to the subchondral plate (see figure ).
The post