A 56 year old previously healthy Caucasian woman and non-smoker, presented to the outpatient chest department with symptoms of episodic bouts of dry cough associated with an occasional wheeze for 12 months and upper thoracic back pain for 3 months. She had no history of chest trauma. On examination, she was not breathless or wheezy and she had a normal temperature. The chest radiograph revealed an area of gas-filled tissue in the upper right mediastinum (fig. ) and a Computer Tomography (CT) scan confirmed a loculated air-filled collection predominantly anterior to the trachea and extending below the carina with no evidence of fluid within the locules. There was no air tracking into the neck or the abdomen. (fig. ). The patient had no recollection of having the cyst diagnosed in the past. The patient was stable and a wait and watch approach was taken, and the patient was to be reviewed in 3 months.
She was readmitted 2 months later with severe chest pain. On examination she was breathless with an expiratory wheeze and was febrile (37.5°C). The patient was not in shock. A repeat chest radiograph (fig ) and CT scan (figs. and ) demonstrated a 9 × 5 cm loculated mass containing fluid and gas, encasing the lower trachea and the main proximal bronchi and extending from the innominate vein to the left atrium consistent with a mediastinal abscess. Bilateral pleural effusions were also present. The lungs were normal. The patient was treated with broad spectrum antibiotics and then had an open thoracotomy three days later with complete resection of the mass. The air-fluid level seen on the CT scans would suggest a tracheobronchial communication but no such communication was found during the operation. Histopathological examination of the mass revealed a collapsed thick walled cyst about 55 mm in diameter. The cyst wall consisted of fibrous and granulation tissue with heavy, chronic active inflammation. There were fragmented seromucinous glands on the inner surface of the cyst