A 50-year-old man presented as an emergency with epigastric pain and haematemesis. He was continuously vomiting out copious amount of fresh blood. He had a history of heavy alcohol intake and used to consume 10 units of alcohol per day and smoked 20 cigarettes/day. The patient had undergone partial gastrectomy and gastroenterostomy for benign gastric ulcer 28 years ago.
General examination revealed anaemia with no jaundice, clubbing or lymphadenopathy. The pulse rate was 108 beats per minute and blood pressure was 80/50 mm Hg. His laboratory tests revealed Hb 8.9 g/dL and MCV 80.2. Chest and abdominal x-rays were normal. He was transfused four units of packed red blood cells. An urgent upper gastrointestinal endoscopy revealed large amount of fresh blood and clots in the fundus of stomach. A possible bleeding vessel was identified on the anterior wall lesser curve high in the fundus. The lesion was injected with adrenaline 1 in 100,000. In spite of the intervention he continued to have haemetemesis with significant haemodynamic impairment. The patient underwent an exploratory laparotomy which revealed an oedematous ridge on the posterior wall with a bleeding point on the posterior gastric wall.
This was overrun with a Vicryl 2/0 stitch which controlled the bleeding. A biopsy of the oedematous ridge was obtained.
Histology of the oedematous ridge revealed partly duodenal mucosa and partly a mixture of body and antral-type gastric mucosa, the latter showing areas of intestinal metaplasia. There was widespread disruption of the muscularis mucosa. The sub mucosa contained numerous glandular structures, lined mainly by antral-type gastric mucosa, showing marked cystic dilatation. These findings were consistent with gastritis cystica profunda (Fig ).
The patient was discharged from hospital in ten days without any post-operative complications. Arrangements were made for him to be followed up as an outpatient. He was also advised to stop smoking and consuming alcohol and was referred to support groups