A 75-year-old woman with a 60-year history of tobacco use was noted to have a right hilar mass on a routine chest X-ray. Computed tomography (CT) scan and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) demonstrated a 4.5 cm well defined mass with slightly lobulated margins present between the upper and lower lobes of the right lung posterior to the right hilum (Figure ). The mass abutted the right main bronchus, the bronchus intermedius and the medial pleural surface. Although the visual impression of the mass radiologically suggested a solid mass, attenuation within the mass (approximately 24 Hounsfield Units (HU)) was less than in the aorta containing blood (approximately 35 HU) and skeletal muscle (approximately 46 HU) indicative of a cystic rather than a solid lesion (Figure ). There was no associated adenopathy or obvious compression of the airway or other structures. Positron emission tomography (PET) scan showed increased uptake in the thyroid gland which on follow-up ultrasound and fine-needle aspiration was diagnosed as multinodular colloid goiter and thyroiditis. Additional work-up was negative for metastatic disease. The patient was minimally symptomatic with a mild cough productive of yellow sputum, but with no shortness of breath or evidence of hemoptysis. The pulmonary mass was felt to represent a primary tumor and the patient underwent subsequent thoracotomy with right upper lobectomy and segmentectomy of the right lower lobe. At follow-up 2 years later, she had no evidence of recurrence or metastatic disease.
On pathological examination, the specimen consisted of resected right upper lobe of lung with attached superior segment of right lower lobe. The pleural surface showed a retracted, indurated area 4.5 × 3 cm close to the bronchus intermedius of the upper lobe. On sectioning, a 5.5 cm nodular cystic mass with a distinctly mucoid appearance (Figure and ) was seen.
Microscopically, the tumor, although situated adjacent, did not have any relationship with the bronchus