A 69-year old female patient, with a previous history of hypertension, thyroidectomy due to hyperthyroidism and hysterectomy for uterus myomas, presented with a progressive swelling of the dorsal aspect of the right side of her neck without signs of vascular obstruction or venous stases. No abnormalities of neural status of the head and neck were observed. There was no functional or sensory loss of the right upper extremity. No signs of Horner's syndrome, dysphagia, cough or dyspnoe were evident. CT scan demonstrated a retroclavicular soft tissue tumour with a cranio-caudal extension of up to 4.5 cm which partially displaced the trachea to the left and compressed the subclavian vein. An adjacent tumour of dimensions 3.5 × 3.5 cm not clearly separated from the before mentioned tumour was located at the inferior right thyroid lobe, compressing the internal jugular vein. Near the confluence of these vessels a subtotal occlusion of the brachiocephalic vein is revealed (Fig. ). The MRI scan added no further information on the origin of the tumour or the cause of venous occlusion. There were no clear signs of tumour infiltration of the brachial plexus, brachial artery, esophagus or trachea. The preoperative chest x-ray displayed a right sided upper mediastinal enlargement (Fig. ). Additional venous angiography indicated a filiform stenosis of the subclavian vein. Within the brachicephalic vein a longitudinal, irregular partial displacement of the vascular lumen was depicted. Extensive blood flow in cervical and supraclavicular collateral vessels was present. Neither MRI, CT nor angiogram allowed for clear distinction of the intravascular process whether it was caused by intravascular tumour growth or thrombosis. Incisional biopsy one month prior to the oncological tumour resection revealed the histopathological diagnosis of a leiomyosarcoma.
Surgical exposure was obtained via a triangular incision running from behind the right ear, along the anterior axillary line and across the sternum. First, the brachial plexus was dissected, the phrenic and recurrent nerves identified and followed distally. The upper border of