A 58-year old non-smoking female, of Philippine origin but domiciled in Australia, presented in December 2000 with cough and wheeze that was not responsive to inhaled beta-agonists. Chest radiography followed by computerised tomography (CT) showed a stage II left perihilar lung tumour, which was confirmed as NSCLC with adenocarcinoma histology by fine needle biopsy. The patient was otherwise well, but had a past history of chronic endometriosis. Her non-smoking mother died of lung cancer at the age of 72, but there was no other family history of cancer. The primary lung tumour and hilar nodes were successfully removed by left pneumonectomy in January 2001. The patient declined adjuvant chemotherapy or radiation, because of concerns about toxicity.
In August 2005 the patient returned to her respiratory physician with weight loss, enlarged left neck lymph nodes, and upper left neck and thoracic pains not controlled by paracetamol and codeine. CT scan showed adenocarcinoma (confirmed on needle biopsy) in the left cervical nodes (> 2.5 cm), a 3.3 cm mass at the left pneumonectomy stump, a 1.2 cm right middle lobe lung lesion, and possible liver metastases up to 1.8 cm in size. Transdermal fentanyl patches were commenced for pain relief but the patient again declined cytotoxic chemotherapy or radiation because of toxicity concerns. Erlotinib was, therefore, recommended as an alternative to chemotherapy.
The patient started oral erlotinib 150 mg/day in September 2005, and within weeks noticed softening of the left cervical nodes, and a decrease in pain, beyond that achieved with opiates. She developed the facial and anterior neck rash typical of EGFR inhibitors, with progression to a grade 3 reaction. The rash did not resolve with topical emollients or corticosteroids, but the patient decided to continue therapy and the rash spontaneously resolved to grade 2 in the next few months. Grade 1 dry cough and mild diarrhoea were also noted, which both persisted throughout. Repeat CT scan in