A 66 year old woman presented to hospital with acute onset of shortness of breath. She was diagnosed as having a non-ST elevation myocardial infarction complicated by congestive heart failure at a community hospital. The patient was stabilized with medical therapy, including parenteral nitroglycerin and non-invasive pressure ventilation. Subsequently, she was referred to our tertiary care centre for a coronary angiogram. Her past medical history included type 2 diabetes mellitus, hypertension, smoking, and peripheral vascular disease.
Coronary angiogram revealed extensive coronary artery disease, including a 95% lesion of the left main coronary artery. There were no complications during the procedure. The left ventricular (LV) pressure was 90/45 mm Hg. While recovering from the angiogram, the patient became acutely dyspneic and tachycardic. Electrocardiogram revealed sinus tachycardia with no evidence of low voltages nor evidence of recurrent ischemia. Chest x-ray was consistent with pulmonary edema. Initial treatment included intravenous furosemide and nitroglycerin for acute congestive heart failure.
An urgent TTE was obtained to rule out complications related to ischemia or angiography. The left ventricle was mildly dilated with severe global systolic dysfunction and an ejection fraction of 20–25% (Figures and , see Additional files and ). There was mild mitral regurgitation with a pulmonary artery systolic pressure of 30 mm Hg. No mechanical complications due to myocardial ischemia were noted. A moderate sized pericardial effusion, measuring 25 mm in diameter was present, particularly along the RV free wall (Figure , see Additional file ). Echodense material attached to the RV was also observed, and was presumed to be thrombus (Figure , see Additional file ). The inferior vena cava was dilated and did not collapse with inspiration (Figure ). Right atrial systolic collapse and mild RV inversion was suggestive of cardiac tamponade physiology.
The patient was taken to the operating room for emergent coronary artery bypass grafting and management of the presumed hemodynamic significant pericardial effusion. While dissecting for visualization of the coronary arteries, a large amount of epicardial