A 64-year-old woman with unresectable squamous cell carcinoma of the mid esophagus was treated with definitive chemoradiotherapy, including 4500 cGy of external beam radiotherapy and two cycles of cisplatin and a continuous venous infusion of 5-fluorouracil. Three months later, she was admitted to the hospital with new onset of choking with both solid and liquid foods. Her past medical history included generalized anxiety disorder and hypercholesterolemia. She had an extensive smoking history, but no known history of cardiac disease. A barium esophagram on admission revealed a tracheo-esophageal fistula for which she underwent a successful endoscopic stent placement with a self-expanding metallic stent.
One day after the procedure, the patient developed substernal chest pain. Serial electrocardiograms revealed ST elevation in the anterior and lateral leads. Troponin measurements rose to 12.3 ng/ml; serum creatine kinase MB peaked at 10.6 ng/ml. Echocardiography revealed severely reduced global left ventricular systolic function and normal basal systolic function. Regional wall motion abnormalities were noted in the left anterior descending, left circumflex and right coronary artery distributions. The patient developed clinical signs of left-sided heart failure, including acute hypoxemic respiratory failure, and required intubation and mechanical ventilation. An emergency cardiac catheterization revealed normal, patent coronary arteries. A left ventriculogram revealed apical dilation of the left ventricle with akinesis of the whole ventricle except for the anterior and posterior base (Figure ). Cardiology consultants felt that the patient's clinical and echocardiographic features met the diagnostic criteria for takotsubo cardiomyopathy []. The patient was managed conservatively with diuresis and had a rapid clinical improvement; she was extubated after 2 days. She was found to have marked improvement in regional wall motion and left ventricular systolic function on a repeat echocardiogram 6 days later (Figures and ). She had no clinical signs of congestive heart failure during follow-up 2.5 weeks later, making an ischemic or radiation induced irreversible cardiomyopathy unlikely.