A 35 year old obese African American male, a mechanic by profession and no significant previous medical problems, came to the emergency room with left sided chest pain that started the night before and slowly got worse. By the time he reached the emergency room, the pain had reached 8 out of a maximum of10 in intensity. The pain was precipitated and aggravated by a stressful situation at home. It radiated to his left shoulder and was not relieved by rest. Patient had a five pack-year history of smoking but quit 10 years ago. He would occasionally drink alcohol. On further questioning, the patient revealed that he had been having mild left sided chest pains, sharp in nature and similar to the current episode, for the last few months. The pain would occur either with stress or exertion. He did not seek medical attention before because the pain would be transient and go away on its own after a few minutes. He was not on any medications and did not use any pain relieving medicines either for his prior symptoms.
In the emergency room, patient was in mild distress and had a blood pressure of 165/81, something new for him. All the rest of the vital signs were normal and both the cardiac and pulmonary examination did not reveal any abnormality either. The basic laboratory work up was normal except a lipid profile showing elevated cholesterol of 238 mg/dl. The patient had an electrocardiogram that showed some premature supraventricular complexes without any ischemic changes. Cardiac biomarkers including serial troponin-I were also normal. The chest pain subsided in the emergency room with intravenous morphine. The patient was admitted to the hospital in the telemetry unit. He was found to have some runs of non-sustained ventricular tachycardia while in the hospital. He underwent a cardiac exercise stress test and an echocardiogram which revealed that patient had a normal ejection fraction but a dilated left atrium along with apical wall motion abnormality.
Patient then underwent a cardiac catheterization. It did not show any obstruction in the coronary