Our 23-year-old female patient with no significant past medical history presented to the hospital complaining of acute shortness of breath, abdominal pain, and severe left lower extremity pain. The patient was in her usual state of health until the evening of her symptoms, when she suddenly turned in her bed and began to experience numbness, tingling, and purplish discoloration of her left lower extremity. On arrival to the emergency department, the patient was in respiratory distress and had bilateral swelling of her lower extremities, the left side larger than the right. A bilateral lower extremity duplex ultrasound revealed a deep vein thrombosis (DVT) in the left lower extremity, the popliteal, and the femoral veins. In addition a CT of the chest utilizing our pulmonary embolism protocol delineated two pulmonary emboli in the first order pulmonary arteries and multiple segmental emboli located in the right upper and right lower lobes. She was subsequently started on a heparin drip.
The patient denied any tobacco use, recent immobilization, or travel. She reported the use of an estrogen vaginal delivery device (ethinyl estradiol vaginal ring) for the previous 6 months. Her hypercoagulable workup was revealing for heterozygosity at C677T for factor V Leiden. It should be noted that heterozygous carriers of FVL have been shown to have an overall 3- to 7-fold increased risk of venous thrombosis, while homozygotes to C677T have a 50- to 100-fold increased risk. []
Due to the acute presentation of her venous thromboembolism, a left pelvic and lower extremity venous thrombectomy was performed. This was followed by stenting of a popliteal venous occlusion, and subsequent thrombolysis with tissue plasminogen activator. Surprisingly, a left lower extremity venogram revealed bilateral inferior vena cavas.
In our patient, the left-sided duplicated IVC and iliac veins were found to be thrombosed. This was marked by the stippled appearance of the duplicated left IVC vessel seen in Figure . The decision was made to