A 72-year-old white male presented to the emergency center with a complaint of right-sided chest pain. He had been treated over the past month for bronchitis with persistent coughing. During a recent coughing spell he developed severe right-sided chest pain and a palpable bulge with localized ecchymosis. The pain worsened and became relentless 12 hours before his visit to the emergency center.
His past medical history was significant for obesity, diabetes, hypertension and renal insufficiency. He quit smoking a few years ago and he remembered sustaining a right-sided rib fracture secondary to a fall five years ago. Vital signs were normal on admission; however, discomfort was obvious especially with coughing or movement. Chest exam revealed a painful, palpable bulge with ecchymosis in right posterior chest wall, which enlarged with coughing. The remainder of his physical exam was unremarkable except for moderate central obesity and a small reducible umbilical hernia.
Chest radiography revealed a radiolucent shadow in the right lower posterior chest wall at the level of the diaphragm consistent with an intercostals lung herniation (Fig ). There was no evidence of a right-sided pneumothorax. There were old healed fractures of the right 8th and 9th ribs with minimal deformity. Comparison films from previous admissions confirmed the new finding of a right-sided lucency. Computer tomography of the chest confirmed the findings of the CXR and revealed a posterolateral right lung herniation (Fig ).
Due to the increasing pain and concern for incarceration, the patient was taken urgently to the operating room for repair. Utilizing a 10 cm posterolateral muscle-sparing thoracotomy incision, we entered the right chest through the 5th intercostal space. Exploration revealed a 4 cm × 2 cm posterior intercostal defect between the 8th and 9th ribs extending anteriorly in a less well defined manner in the form of attenuated intercostal musculature. The diaphragm formed a cul-de-sac with this area