A 52 year old male smoker undergoing coronary artery bypass grafting for three vessel coronary artery disease and moderately impaired left ventricular function was felt to have a mass arising from the under surface of right costal margin adjacent to right lower sternal margin while sternopericardial ligament was being broken off by finger dissection prior to sternotomy. Preoperative chest X-ray suggested a soft, globular paracardiac shadow in relation to the right pericardiophrenic angle, appreciated better retrospectively (Figure ) Sternotomy was made, the right pleura was opened to facilitate delineation of the mass. The mass measured 8 × 6 × 3 cms and was arising from the right costal margin and the adjacent surfaces of 7th, 8th, 9th and 10th ribs (Figure ). The mass was of firm to hard and variable consistency and was filled with cartilaginous material and there was no definite demarcation between the mass and the chest wall. The chest wall mass was excised in its entirety along with the intercostal muscle and the periosteum (Figure , Figure and Figure ). The frozen section revealed it to be either a chondrosarcoma or teratoma. Quadruple coronary artery bypass grafting to left anterior descending artery and its diagonal branch, obtuse marginal branch of circumflex artery and left ventricular branch of right coronary artery was performed using left internal mammary artery and long saphenous vein for conduits, employing cardiopulmonary bypass with antegrade cold blood cardioplegic arrest. Patient made uncomplicated postoperative recovery.
Histopathology revealed the overall appearances of grade 1 chondrosarcoma with a tumour composed of lobules of cartilage of varying size separated by fibrous tissue (Figure ). The chondrocytes showed cytological atypia, binucleate cells, focal hypercellular areas with areas of calcification and necrosis (Figure ). The tumour was seen to focally infiltrate into surrounding skeletal muscle.
The patient was discussed at the Regional Sarcoma MDT. Further excisional surgery in view of the positive surgical margins