B. A., a 71-year-old man, presented with dyspnoea under moderate exercise, without angina. His clinical history was characterized by a silent inferior-basal myocardial infarction detected by a control ECG that presented inferior Q waves, and he had not previously presented symptoms. The infarct was referable to maximum a couple of months before especially basing on symptoms worsening. So he had not any previous diagnosis or treatment of the acute event.
Functional NYHA Class was III, but it was I two months before, and symptoms were rapidly worsening in the last 20 days.
The patient was a smoker, affected by chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), hypertension, and peripheral vascular disease, presented in sinus rhythm. Medical therapy was based beta blockers, ASA, and a diuretic with some relief of symptoms.
A transthoracic echocardiogram (TTE) showed a dyskinetic posterior wall of the left ventricle, mild mitral regurgitation, with moderate reduction of the ejection fraction (EF = 44%). An aneurysmatic enlargement was noted in the posterior wall, but with few signs to distinguish a true aneurysm from a pseudo-aneurysm. The patient underwent a coronary angiographic examination that revealed patent anterior descending and circumflex arteries and a right coronary artery that was completely closed and perfused by hetero-coronaric circulation. Contrast ventriculography showed an enlargement of the left ventricle with a large dyskinetic cavity localized in the diaphragmatic region, suggesting the presence of a pseudo-aneurysm. (Fig. )
A second TTE was done, with results similar to the first one, but a thrombus in the posterior wall was also disclosed.
At the time of surgery a large true aneurysm of the posterior wall of the left ventricle was found (Fig. , ). The aneurysm consisted of a very thin myocardium layer; inside there was a thrombus about 6 cm × 4.5 cm. (Fig. )
Surgery was performed via medial sternotomy. A normothermic cardiopulmonary by-pass (CPB) was carried