A 55-year-old healthy woman was referred to our institution with a two-year history of progressive dysphagia to solids (). She reported a recent episode of solid food getting stuck in her throat, which prompted presentation to an outside endoscopist. The patient reported no alcohol use. She was a former smoker with a 15 pack-year history, but had quit over 20 years prior. The patient had a past medical history of gastroesophageal reflux disease, for which she was taking omeprazole, and hypothyroidism. She had no known history of any esophageal dysmotility disorder. There was a history of diabetes mellitus in her mother and son.
Physical exam and laboratory testing were unremarkable. Esophagography demonstrated a filling defect in the upper thoracic esophagus. Computed tomography (CT) demonstrated an 8 cm mass. Endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) demonstrated a pedunculated mass with a submucosal origin beginning at 20 cm from the incisors on the right side of the neck (). The lesion was felt to have the characteristic appearance of a FVP and the patient elected to proceed with resection.
The exploration began via a right cervical approach. The recurrent laryngeal nerve was identified and the cervical esophagus was mobilized. The mass was palpable on the posterior esophageal wall at the thoracic inlet. Upon a short myotomy, no stalk was identified and the mass could not be delivered to the neck. The cervical incision was closed and a right thoracotomy was performed. The mass was seen extending from the level of the azygos vein to the thoracic inlet. The esophageal muscular layer was intact. Following myotomy, the soft mass, which was densely adhered to the mucosa, was visualized and dissected from the underlying mucosa. It became evident that the mass maintained its attachment to a portion of the mucosa. Complete mobilization revealed the mass to be a lipoma at the tip of a large midesophageal diverticulum traveling in a submucosal plane. Repeat endoscopy demonstrated an ostium in the esophageal wall opening into a