Presentation of a 67-year-old white woman who had experienced several weeks of hematuria with clots led to consultations at two outside hospitals (oshs). Cystoscopy and transurethral resection at the first osh revealed a high-grade urothelial bladder carcinoma with areas of sarcomatoid and neuroendocrine differentiation. The patient was advised to have radical cystectomy. A repeat biopsy at the second osh revealed invasive high-grade urothelial carcinoma with prominent sarcomatoid and neuroendocrine elements, and invasion of the muscularis propria, classified as T2AN0 stage ii (). The patient was further advised that bladder-conserving approaches were not recommended because of the likely poor response to chemoradiation by the sarcomatoid elements, rendering radical cystectomy the standard of care. However, the woman continued to seek bladder preservation and presented to our institution to discuss bladder-sparing options. We also advised her that radical cystectomy was the traditional standard of care, but agreed that chemoradiation was a reasonable alternative because cystectomy could be reserved for salvage.
Clinical examination revealed no significant physical findings, and the patient denied further hematuria, increased urinary frequency, urinary urgency, urinary retention, dysuria, incontinence, anorexia, or weight loss. She denied ever smoking, but reported a significant history of second-hand exposure. Her past medical history was significant for a peptic ulcer, and her past surgical history included appendectomy and tonsillectomy.
We developed a treatment program consisting of 7 weeks of weekday radiation therapy integrated with chemotherapy, with follow-up routine cystoscopy thereafter to monitor response. The patient’s radiation program consisted of 36 fractions over 49 days, with a dose of 39.6 Gy to the bladder and pelvic lymph nodes followed by 25.2 Gy to the bladder tumour. Her chemotherapy regimen consisted of cisplatin 35 mg/m2 (49 mg in 500 mL normal saline over 1 hour) at the beginning of weeks 1, 3, 5, and 7, with each cycle divided over 2 consecutive days. She was also treated with palonos