A 68-year-old man presented to the emergency department (ED) complaining of intermittent pleuritic chest pain for one week. His medical history included non-small cell lung cancer, treated with right pneumonectomy and chemotherapy nearly ten years prior, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), requiring home oxygen, hypertenstion, and prior tobacco use. Ten weeks before presenting to our hospital he was diagnosed with new onset paroxysmal atrial fibrillation. Warfarin was prescribed, which he did not take. Six weeks prior to admission he had been admitted for a COPD exacerbation, requiring intubation.
Upon presentation to the ED, a contrasted chest CT was performed which revealed a large thrombus in the right pulmonary artery stump with no evidence of pulmonary emboli (Figure ). Venous dopplers of his lower extremities did not reveal deep venous thrombosis. The patient had a chest CT with contrast done eighteen months earlier that did not show a pulmonary artery stump thrombus. He had also had two recent non-contrasted chest CT scans that were reviewed after the discovery of the right pulmonary artery thrombus. The routine scan performed three months earlier, for follow-up of his lung cancer, did not have any areas of increased density in the pulmonary artery stump, suggesting that there was no thrombus. However, review of the scan performed six weeks earlier, during his admission for COPD exacerbation, revealed an area of increased density in the right pulmonary artery stump, consistent with the location of the thrombus. These scans suggest that the thrombus developed during the period of clinical decline. An echocardiogram also performed at the time of the non-contrast chest CT, six weeks prior to his admission demonstrated a dilated right atrium with moderate right ventricle hypokinesis and elevated PA pressures of 40–45 mmHg consistent with mild pulmonary hypertension. The right ventricular hypokinesis was worse when compared to his previous echocardiogram two years prior. His echocardiograms were reported as being limited due to the dislocation of the heart within the chest cavity.
The patient