A 49 year old woman presented with jaw and arm pain to her local Emergency Department. She had the pain since the previous evening, approximately 14 hours, and had initially presented to her dentist before being redirected. Cardiac risk factors included hypertension, smoking and a positive family history of ischaemic heart disease in her father. The ECG showed anterolateral ST elevation and because of this and ongoing pain, she was thrombolysed with retaplase despite the late presentation. At 90 minutes the ECG changes and pain had not resolved and therefore she was transferred to our tertiary centre for rescue angioplasty. The left anterior descending artery (LAD) was occluded with a large thrombus load. The LAD was successfully opened and a Vision 3.5 × 15 mm bare metal stent was deployed, the procedure was covered with heparin and abciximab and an intra-aortic balloon pump. There was moderate circumflex and right coronary artery disease which was not intervened upon. Cardiac enzymes were elevated with peak CK of >4000 iu/L and troponin I of 98 μg/L. A transthoracic echocardiogram the following day showed a mildly dilated left ventricle (LV) with mild hypertrophy. The anterolateral wall was akinetic with moderate to severely impaired LV function. There was no significant valvular disease and a 1 cm pericardial effusion around the posterior, inferior and lateral walls and right heart with no haemodynamic compromise. Her recovery was complicated by low-grade pyrexia and raised inflammatory markers, peak CRP 321 mg/L. Blood, urine and sputum cultures were negative however she was treated empirically for a chest infection with doxycycline. An episode of hypoxia and chest pain without gross changes on chest radiograph resulted in a CT pulmonary angiogram which did not show any evidence of pulmonary embolism but some basal atelectasis. Two weeks after admission she was asymptomatic. Prior to discharge an exercise tolerance test was arranged to assess for ischaemia in view of the moderate untreated coronary disease. She completed 6 minutes of the Bruce protocol achieving 85% of her maximal predicted