A 73-year-old man was admitted with severe chest pain at rest for 3 hours. He had previous three myocardial infarctions with the last one occurring 14 years before this admission. At that time, he underwent coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) with LIMA to left anterior descending artery and two saphenous vein grafts to the right coronary and first obtuse marginal arteries. Following surgery, his chest pain resolved, but he had frequent admissions with chest pain over the last four years which was misdiagnosed as coronary artery spasm. In addition, his past medical history included congestive heart failure and cardiac arrest twelve years ago. His coronary risk factors were hypertension, hypercholesterolemia, family history of ischaemic heart disease, and a 45 pack-year history of cigarette smoking.
His physical examination revealed a blood pressure of 124/63 mmHg in the right arm and 83/50 mmHg in the left, a regular pulse of 84 beats/minute, and respiratory rate of 18 breaths/minute. He had normal heart sounds and the lung fields were clear. The vascular examination revealed easily palpable right upper extremity and bilateral lower extremity pulses. Left upper extremity pulses were present but diminished. Carotid arteries were palpable with no audible bruits. No abdominal masses were palpated.
A 12-lead electrocardiogram demonstrated ischaemic changes in lateral leads and a chest x-ray showed cardiomegaly. Cardiac enzymes revealed troponin of 0.05 μg/L. On diagnostic coronary angiography, there was 50% stenosis in left main stem and 50% stenosis in left anterior descending artery in mid-segment with good run off. Failure to pass the catheter through the left subclavian artery indicated possible stenosis raising suspicion of CSSS.
CT Angiogram confirmed a 2 cm stenosis at the origin of left subclavian artery (). Stenting of left subclavian artery was considered hazardous due to the risk of occlusion of the adjacent vertebral artery. The patient was referred to undergo left common carotid to subclavian artery bypass. After exploration, the left subclavian artery was found to have