A 41-year-old man was referred to our department with an inferior acute myocardial infarction. He was smoker with hyperlipidaemia (low-density lipoprotein cholesterol was 169 mg/dL). The time symptom onset to admission to the intensive care unit was ten hours. His 12-lead electrocardiogram revealed a normal sinus rhythm at 60 beats/min with persisting ST elevation and Q waves in the inferior leads. Emergency coronary angiography revealed an acute thrombotic occlusion of the second segment of the right coronary artery, a severe stenosis of a non-dominant and small circumflex coronary artery and diffuse plaques in all segments of the left anterior descending coronary artery (, Panel (c) and (d)); the patient underwent angioplasty and (bare metal) stenting with a good final result (, Panel (a) and (b)). Initial CMR was performed five days after the acute event. Steady-state free precession (SSFP) cine sequences showed normal wall motion in the anterior area and severe myocardial hypokinesia in the inferior wall. Black blood T2 images (T2 weighted short inversion-time, inversion-recovery (STIR) breath hold pulse sequences) suggested myocardial oedema in the inferior wall (, Panel (e)). CMR detected transmural delayed enhancement in the inferior wall associated with late microvascular obstruction 10 minutes after gadolinium injection (, Panel (f) and (g)). Surprisingly, another area of hyperenhancement which was subendocardial was found in the mid anterior wall of the left ventricle within the distribution of the left anterior descending coronary artery territory.
The patient remained well and asymptomatic during follow-up. CMR and myocardial scintigraphy were also performed in this patient 3 months later. CMR again showed persistent areas of delayed enhancement in the inferior wall transmurally and subendocardial enhancement in the anterior wall at the mid-ventricular level. Myocardial scintigraphy suggested myocardial ischaemia in the inferior, lateral and basal walls in favour of a restenosis, but this study did not detect any myocardial necrosis in the anterior wall (, Panel