A fifty six year old gentleman was referred to our hospital with the complaints of gradually increasing difficulty in breathing and dry cough for one month and an audible wheeze for the last seven days. He denied any history of fever, weight loss or anorexia. His background history revealed that he was a smoker and had quit smoking three months earlier, and was taking antihypertensive medicines for the last three years. Three months prior to the present complaints, the patient had received thrombolytic therapy (Urokinase) for an inferior wall-plus right ventricular myocardial infarction. Few hours after thrombolysis, he had developed severe cardiogenic shock with left ventricular dysfunction and was put on mechanical ventilatory support, and also needed an intra aortic balloon pump to support his heart. Subsequently, he underwent angiography and PTCA to the left circumflex coronary artery. The patient made a good recovery after definitve treatment for heart failure was initiated and was extubated four days later and was discharged from the unit in a stable condition after twelve days.
The patient's general physical examination was unremarkable except for an audible wheeze. A Chest radiograph was normal. Pulmonary function tests showed reduction in the expiratory flow rate. Direct laryngoscopy showed normal movement of both the vocal cords. He underwent diagnostic bronchoscopy and on bronchoscopy, multiple membranous web like stenosis on the upper tracheal cartilages with small pedunculated soft tissue growth distal to the stenosis was seen []. Punch biopsy was taken from the growth and histopathological examination showed chronic granulation tissue comprising of numerous thick wall blood vessels with dense stroma and reactive fibroblasts.
Under short general anesthesia, the granulation tissue was removed by electrosurgery and the stenosed segment was dilated by PPD™ esophageal progressive balloon Dilator (TeleMed System Inc. USA, Balloon length 8 cm and largest external diameter of 17mm with 118 PSI). The maximum diameter was held for 30s and the procedure was repeated thrice. The patent was hyperoxygenated before each maneuver. After the third dilation, the