A previously well 55 year old Caucasian male presented to gastroenterology out patients clinic in November 2003, with a three week history of worsening dysphagia to solids and weight loss of 4 kilograms. He described a sensation of food sticking at the level of the lower sternum. He had suffered in the past with mild heartburn for which he took a proton pump inhibitor on an as required basis. He was a married and worked as an accountant. He had never smoked. Physical examination including the body mass index and blood pressure was unremarkable.
Initial investigations revealed proteinuria (++) on urine dipstick, a haemoglobin of 11.8 (normal indices) with an otherwise normal blood count and film. Urea and electrolytes, estimated glomerular filtration rate, liver enzymes, thyroid stimulating hormone, random blood glucose, bone profile, haematinics and urine culture & sensitivity were normal. The ESR was 96 mm/hour. Unfortunately 24 hour urinary protein quantification was never been considered as the patient's presentation did not suggest nephrotic or nephritic syndrome.
Oesophagogastroduodenoscopy including biopsies from the mid and lower third of oesophagus were normal thus excluding eosinophilic oesophagitis.
Although a liquid barium swallow showed no abnormality, a swallow with a solid medium (bread soaked in barium) detected a significantly abnormal non-specific dysmotility of the lower oesophagus (,). This was performed because the use a solid medium during a barium swallow increases the sensitivity of the test by generating a greater amplitude and duration of peristalsis []. The dysmotility that was seen was confirmed with oesophageal manometry.
A chest radiograph obtained during his barium swallow identified a “coin shaped” lesion in the periphery of the left lower lobe of the lung (). On the same day his ultrasound scan of the abdomen detected a mass arising from the left kidney measuring 8x6x6 cms. A computed tomography scan confirmed a large tumour arising from the left kidney with renal vein involvement,