An 83-year-old white female presented to the Emergency Department with a four-week history of progressively worsening epigastric abdominal pain and a four-day history of obstipation. Her past medical history was significant for hypertension and bladder cancer diagnosed 3 months prior to presentation, treated by partial cystectomy. Her pathology at that time was significant for a superficial bladder tumor with sarcomatoid features (T1), and was closely followed medical oncology. She had not received adjuvant therapy. The patient presented with persistent nausea without vomiting, fevers or chills, chest pain or shortness of breath. Her oral intake was decreased over the prior two weeks, worsening to complete food intolerance. She had no urinary complaints at presentation and denied any night sweats or weight loss. She had a 70-pack-year smoking history and drank alcohol on occasion.
On physical exam the patient appeared cachectic and uncomfortable but in no acute distress. She was afebrile, with a normal blood pressure but was slightly tachycardiac with a heart rate of 110 beats per minute. She was tachypnic with a respiratory rate of 23 breaths per minute with an oxygen saturation of 96% on room air. Her heart and lung exam was unremarkable, but her abdomen was grossly distended with hyperactive bowel sounds. She was tender primarily in the epigastrum with fullness in that region. There was no rebound tenderness, and she was voluntarily guarding in all four quadrants. No organomegaly was appreciated. Her lower midline cystectomy scar was noted. Rectal exam was not significant for any palpable masses and fecal occult blood testing was negative. Laboratory values were within normal limits and her chest X-ray was unremarkable.
A computed tomography scan of her abdomen with intravenous contrast demonstrated evidence of intussusception at the transverse colon with a 2 × 2 cm lead point characterized as a soft tissue density. There was appreciable thickening of the descending colon as well as para-aortic