A 49-year-old Caucasian female, with a long history of heavy cigarette smoking and a previous diagnosis of supraventricular tachycardia, for which cardiac ablation was performed 2 years ago, was admitted to the hospital for an elective sacral neuromodulator lead change to treat urinary incontinence. In the operating room, the patient received monitored anesthesia care (MAC) in the prone position. During the procedure she required increasing sedation (IV propofol infusion) and after thirty minutes the patient showed progressive hypercapnia from the nasal cannula sample line, while receiving supplemental oxygen (4 L/min). An oral airway was placed, but end-tidal CO2 ranged from 65 to 75 mmHg and did not improve. It was then decided to place a laryngeal mask and to supply positive pressure ventilation; however no improvement of the hypercapnia ensued and we could not provide adequate ventilation. The patient was then emergently intubated to secure an airway and provide adequate ventilation. This required interruption of surgery, turning the patient supine, ventilating oxygen by mask and a succinylcholine bolus. During the intubation process, marked edema above the vocal cords was noticed by an experienced anesthesiologist, allowing only for a smaller sized endotracheal tube to be inserted (6 mm with difficulty, but not a 7 mm tube). The patient was given dexamethasone 8 mg and diphenhydramine 25 mg for the airway edema. Following intubation and after securing the tube in place, we started positive pressure ventilation and returned the patient to the prone position, and the end tidal CO2 returned within normal range. However, within a few minutes, the patient developed bibasilar rales, with abundant frothy, blood – tinged secretions appearing in the tube. We maintained the patient prone while the surgical procedure was concluded. The edema fluid was adequately suctioned and abated after 10 minutes of positive pressure ventilation. Postoperatively the patient remained intubated and sedated on a propofol infusion. While in recovery, an arterial blood gas obtained on Synchronized Intermittent Mechanical Ventilation