A 62-year-old Caucasian man, service engineer presented to accident and emergency with sudden onset of low back pain whilst lifting a washing machine at work. Pain radiated to groins and was associated with progressive bilateral weakness with numbness in the legs, with more marked symptoms on the left side. There were no cardiovascular symptoms, and the patient had normal observations. He was previously fit and well. He had no medications. He was a smoker for around 40 years and smoked twenty cigarettes a day. He was referred to the orthopedic team as a possible case of cauda equina syndrome secondary to a prolapsed intervertebral disc.
Neurological examination revealed profound motor deficit in the legs with Medical Research Council (MRC) grade 2/5 muscle power in the hip flexors and complete paralysis in all other groups distally. All reflexes including the plantar reflexes were absent, and sensation was altered throughout both legs. Sensory and motor functions at level T12 were preserved. Perianal tone and sensation were both markedly reduced and he was unable to feel the passage of a bladder catheter. His vital signs were stable with normal pulse and blood pressure. Complete cardiorespiratory examination was normal and all peripheral pulses were palpable. However, abdominal examination revealed a nontender pulsatile mass.
Baseline laboratory investigations including Erythrocyte Sedimentation Rate were normal with the exception of a white cell count of 14.4 × 109/Lt. Lumbar puncture was unremarkable. His other blood parameters including LFT, Renal functions and bone profile were normal apart from slight raised cholesterol 6.2(5.3 mmol/lt). Plain radiographs revealed mild degenerative changes in the spine. An urgent MRI scan was requested to rule out caudaequina due to disc prolapse. An MRI revealed () multiple disc protrusions in the lumbar spine, in particular at the L5/S1 level, but there was no evidence of acute cord or caudal compression. The scan also revealed the presence