A 34 year old middle eastern lady with a spontaneous conception presented at 13 weeks of gestation for a routine 1st trimester ultrasound and screening. Her booking weight was 79 kg and her height 165 cm. She was a housewife with three previous uncomplicated pregnancies delivered vaginally. She was on no medication except for iron supplement. The past medical and surgical history was unremarkable and the patient was neither a smoker nor an alcohol drinker. The family history of her partner and herself was unremarkable as well.
On 1st trimester ultrasound, the fetus was noted to have bilateral anterolateral neck cysts around 5 × 5 mm in size (Figures and ) suggestive of either 'non-septated cystic hygromas' which are congenital malformations of the lymphatic system characterized by fluid-filled jugular lymphatic sacs of the fetal neck [,] or, the much rarer bilateral branchial cleft cysts. No other abnormalities were noted and the nuchal translucency measured 2.3 mm. The patient was counselled for the high possibility of spontaneous regression and good fetal outcome awaiting the results of the integrated 1st trimester screening test. At 16 weeks, integrated screening gave a 1 in 2 risk for trisomy 18 and therefore fetal ultrasonograpy was repeated. The fetal growth and amniotic fluid volume were normal and the bilateral neck cysts were stable in size. No other abnormalities could be detected despite a careful sonographic assessment and an amniocentesis for fetal karyotyping was offered and accepted. PCR on the amniotic fluid revealed trisomy 18 which was confirmed by cytogenetic analysis.
The couple decided to opt for termination of pregnancy which was completed medically at 17+4 weeks with no complications. Pathologic examination of the fetus revealed a dysmorphic face with low-set ears, both legs fixed in extension and clenched fists. At autopsy the neck cysts could not be identified, but there had been considerable trauma to the scalp during delivery. Internally the kidneys and adrenals were of normal