A 79-year-old Greek woman was referred to our department for the management of discomfort in the upper abdomen over the last 2-3 weeks, aggravated after food ingestion. The patient was not a smoker or an alcohol consumer and appeared healthy and well nourished. The physical examination and laboratory examinations including tumor markers were unremarkable.
An abdominal ultrasound (US) showed multiple stones in the gallbladder without features of cholecystitis and a multilocular cystic mass in the neck of the pancreas, with max diameter 4 cm. For further clarification of the US findings, Computed tomography (CT) () and Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) (, & ) of the abdomen were also performed and revealed a homogenously hyper-intense multi-locular cystic lesion with max diameter 4 cm, located in the neck of the pancreas. Since it was difficult to conclude preoperatively whether the mass of interest corresponded to either a serous cystadenoma or a mucinous neoplasm or a cystadenocarcinoma we scheduled to perform a typical laparoscopic cholecystectomy in combination with laparoscopic evaluation of the mass in order to obtain a diagnosis and treatment if possible.
Under general anesthesia with the patient in the supine position, a pneumoperitoneum was created by carbon dioxide insufflation and four trocars were placed in the typical locations for cholecystectomy. After typical laparoscopic cholecystectomy, a fifth 12 mm trocar was placed at the outer verge of rectus abdominis muscle, in order to ease further surgical manipulations. The gastrocolic ligament was divided by Ligasure™ vessel sealing system and a tumor of exophytic nature protruding from the pancreatic parenchyma was noticed at the upper pancreatic margin at the pancreatic neck. Because the tumor was quite mobile and lacked adhesions with the neighboring tissues, it was considered it could be excised en bloc laparoscopically without harming the main pancreatic duct. After dissection of the tumor, ENDO GIA™ was used for tumor excision from the pancreatic parenchyma and ENDO CATCH™ was used to collect and remove the mass