A 36-year-old Indian man was hospitalized 72 hours after forceful vomiting followed by the onset of chest pain, dyspnoea and fever. The patient had no previous medical history and no family history of relevance. He worked as construction worker. He was non-smoker and consumed an average of 40 unit of alcohol per week. His height was 170 cm and his weight was 64 kg. Initial chest radiography showed left-sided hydropneumothorax with mediastinal emphysema. Computed tomography of the chest with contrast showed spontaneous esophageal perforation (Boerhaave’s syndrome) in the left lower third of thoracic esophagus. Patient underwent emergency direct surgical repair with pleural flap reinforcement (first operation). Subsequently he developed an esophageal leak with mediastinitis and empyema, followed by a septic shock. Esophagectomy with cervical esophagostomy, gastrostomy and feeding jejunostomy was done (second operation) with a preparation for esophageal reconstruction at a later stage. Six weeks later, a retrosternal gastric transposition with CEGA was performed using circular stapler (third operation). Transmediastinal gastric transposition was found to be difficult because of the two previous surgeries and inflammatory process. Five days later, the patient developed discharge from the neck incision which required bedside drainage and packing. Contrast study revealed a major disruption of the cervical anastomosis ().
Patient underwent exploration which revealed a necrosis of the gastric tip, resulting in complete anastomotic disruption. Complete median sternotomy was done with extra care not to injure the retrosternal gastric conduit, followed with tedious blunt dissection of the stomach that was firmly adherent to the sternum anteriorly and mediastinum posteriorly. Finally, it was freed with maximum possible mobilization, in order to gain a sufficient length. After generous excision of the necrotic gastric tip and the edge of cervical esophagus, a new CEGA was performed, using manual anastomosis with interrupted 4-0 vicryl (forth operation). Patient made steady postoperative recovery with no signs of sterna infection or mediastinal collection. On the