A 82-year-old man with the diagnosis of unstable angina was transferred for possible PCI. His past medical history included hypertension, hyperlipidemia, chronic renal insufficiency (baseline creatinine 2 mg/dl), and previous myocardial infarction with five vessel CABG for coronary artery disease 10 years ago. He did have a remote smoking history of four years but quit 65 years ago and had no known history of lung disease.
Upon arrival to our facility, he was pain free and his blood pressure was 120/75 mmHg with heart rate of 74 beats per minute. ECG showed normal sinus rhythm, left axis deviation, and ST segment depression in the inferior leads. The patients’ prothrombin time was 14 seconds with a corresponding INR of 1.2 and a normal platelet count. CXR did not reveal any infiltrates or other acute processes ().
The patient was treated with full dose aspirin, started on heparin by standard weight based protocol, and taken to the cardiac catheterization laboratory for coronary angiography. The coronary angiogram showed severe native three vessel disease, widely patent RIMA and LIMA, and 80% focal stenosis in the mid portion of the patients saphenous vein graft to the obtuse marginal branch of the left circumflex artery. These findings correlated with the patients ECG findings and therefore he underwent percutaneous coronary intervention of his saphenous vein graft. A bolus of 180 mcg/kg of intravenous eptifibatide was given followed by a continuous intravenous infusion at 1 mcg/kg/min for 18 hours. Balloon angioplasty and stenting was performed using standard technique and reduced the stenosis to 0% restoring TIMI-3 coronary flow to the vessel. Following the procedure, the patient was transferred to the coronary care unit in stable condition.
Four hours following the procedure the patient developed severe dyspnea and hypoxemia. Electrocardiography revealed sinus tachycardia and arterial blood gas measurements on 100% non re-breather mask showed a pH of 7.44, Po2 of 50 mmHg a Pco2 of 32 mmHg, and oxygen saturation