A 25-year-old Caucasian female underwent a splenectomy which was performed through a vertical midline incision in 1994 for injuries sustained in a motor vehicle collision. Twelve years later, at age 37, she was diagnosed with stage IIA carcinoma of the left breast. She presented for bilateral mastectomies with immediate autologous tissue reconstruction. She had completed four cycles of neoadjuvant dose-dense adriamycin and cytoxan chemotherapy 2 months previously. Following her chemotherapy, her platelet counts ranged from 332 to 424 K/cmm. Her medical history was significant for obesity (BMI 40.4) and asthma. The patient had smoked 1 pack per day for 15 years, but had discontinued that practice during her chemotherapy treatment.
In 2006, she underwent a bilateral mastectomy with immediate bilateral ipsilateral single pedicle transverse rectus abdominis myocutaneous (TRAM) flap reconstruction. Venous thromboembolism prophylaxis was provided intraoperatively and during her hospital stay via sequential compression devices (SCD). Although not a routine component of our customary reconstructions, fluorescein was utilized intraoperatively to confirm the viability of the mastectomy flaps prior to final insetting of the TRAM flaps. The patient did well during the procedure and suffered no intraoperative or postoperative hypotensive episodes. On postoperative day 1, her wounds looked well and her platelet count was 374 K/cmm. She was discharged on postoperative day 4 with slight epidermolysis in the abdominal flap just cephalad to the mid-line sutures. Over the next 2 weeks, both the mastectomy and abdominal skin flaps underwent progressive necrosis as the platelet count rose to 1390 K/cmm. The patient's hematologist/oncologist was consulted at this point. The consultant's opinion was that this was a reactive phenomenon and required no additional testing or intervention. Even though the TRAM flaps remained completely viable, aspirin therapy was instituted empirically. The necrosis of the mastectomy and abdominal flaps continued to evolve and on postoperative day 18, the patient underwent operative debridement of her abdominal (Fig ) and chest wounds. The breast wounds were closed primarily