The patient was a 61-year-old Caucasian male with a history of angina pectoris and four prior elective coronary angiographies (CAG) in 1996, 1998, 2002, and 2003; all of these showing atheromatosis but no significant stenosis. He had a long history of cigarette smoking and hypertension.
In December 2006, the patient experienced a syncope followed by chest pain and was transported to the nearest emergency department. Upon arrival he developed ventricular fibrillation, but after two direct current counter shocks sinus rhythm was restored. An electrocardiogram (ECG) taken immediately after resuscitation showed () ST segment elevations in lead V1 and V2 with a type-1 BrS configuration in V1. Shortly, hereafter the patient was transferred from the local community hospital to a regional hospital to undergo an acute CAG. The CAG demonstrated a 90% stenosis on the circumflex coronary artery, which was treated with Percutaneous Coronary Intervention (PCI). TIMI flow both before and after stenting were 3. Blood samples taken at time of admission showed normal biochemistry, especially normal troponin T and creatinine kinases. Transthoracic echocardiography revealed borderline hypertrophy of the left ventricle but was otherwise normal.
Subsequently the patient underwent an invasive electrophysiological study (EPS) during which ventricular fibrillation was induced. Because of the EPS findings and clinical signs of BrS in conjunction with an episode of ventricular fibrillation, the patient received an implantable cardioverter-defibrillator (ICD). In the two years of follow up, no ICD therapies, appropriate or inappropriate, had been delivered (follow up until January 2009).
Years later a flecainide provocation test as well as an ECG with elevated electrode placement were performed, but none of these resulted in induction of a type-1 BrS ECG configuration, illustrating the variable nature of the ECG changes. A retrospective review of the patients ECGs though, uncovered an ECG from July 2006 showing a BrS Type-1 pattern in V1.
Furthermore, during the unraveling of the disease history it