A 41-year-old man presented with a painful, swollen right index finger with decreased range of motion and pain in the ipsilateral wrist. He denied trauma but reported clear fluid draining intermittently from the finger. He had taken 2 courses of cephalexin and 1 course of oral penicillin with no relief. Two incision and drainage procedures were previously attempted without improvement.
The patient, born in China, immigrated to the United States 10 years ago. He was working as a sushi chef and admitted to multiple cuts and abrasions to his left hand but none to the right. His significant medical history included treatment of tuberculosis at 5 years of age. Surgical history included the incision and drainage with negative culture results. He was taking no medications and denied any allergies, smoking, alcohol, or illicit drug use. A review of systems was otherwise unremarkable.
Upon examination, he was afebrile and healthy appearing. There was minimal erythema but marked edema around the right index finger without fluctuance or drainage. A significant decrease in the range of flexion/extension at the metacarpophalangeal joint, proximal interphalangeal joint, and distal interphalangeal joint of the right index finger was noted. There was intact abduction and adduction of the digits and no pain on passive extension. A nontender, fluctuant swelling involving the mid-volar aspect of the wrist was present. No lymphadenopathy was appreciated and sensation was intact. The remainder of his physical examination was normal.
Radiography of the hand showed extensive soft tissue swelling of the index finger, more pronounced on the ulnar side. Magnetic resonance imaging revealed an ill-defined abscess collection and phlegmon involving the index finger tracking into the wrist with small fluid collections deep to the flexor tendons and stretching of the A2 pulley (Figs and ). There was also marked tenosynovitis of the index, middle, and ring finger flexor tendons.
All the laboratory examinations including a complete