A 23-year-old Caucasian Greek woman presented with a history of progressively worsening hoarseness during the previous 9 months and recent onset of dysphagia. She reported no weight loss and she denied the use of tobacco or excessive alcohol consumption. She had a history of skin atopy, reporting sensitivity to wool, and a history of an episode of anaphylactic reaction of unknown cause 2 years previously.
Physical examination of the neck was normal. Indirect laryngoscopy and endoscopy with a flexible endoscope revealed a smooth, red-yellow, cystic formation localized in the left hemilarynx between the false vocal cord and the aryepiglottic fold. Chest X-ray was normal. A tracheal computed tomography (CT) scan in 5 mm sections confirmed the existence of the mass (Figure ). The thyroid cartilage appeared intact and no nodal involvement was detected.
We proceeded to perform microlaryngoscopy under general anaesthesia and removal of the mass (measuring 4 × 2.5 × 2 cm) using a CO2 laser. Pathological examination revealed a mass with a smooth surface. On macroscopic inspection the cut sections were yellow-grey and solid with a soft and elastic consistency. On microscopy, it was not clear whether its structure was bundled or micronodular, consisting of bundles of woven eosinophilic tissue, with sparse fibroblastic cells, several small vessels and rare atrophic glandular regions. There were also a few collections of lymphocytes and granulocytes. Staining with Congo red stain, under polarized light, revealed blue-green birefringence throughout the mass due to the presence of amyloid. No signs of malignancy were seen.
Further examinations were done to rule out systemic amyloidosis. The patient's complete blood count, erythrocyte sedimentation rate, basic metabolic and biochemical panel and liver function tests were within normal limits. Serum calcium was also normal. Serum and urine electrophoresis were normal. Rectal biopsy was negative. Based on these findings systemic amyloidosis and multiple myeloma were excluded from the differential diagnosis. The