In March 2006, a 66-year-old Taiwanese male patient complained of having upper right quadrant discomfort for about 10 days. The patient also suffered from poor appetite and fatigue. His past history was significant with a traffic accident and right leg amputation about 30 years ago. The patient had no known exposure to chemicals, did not drink, and smoked one pack per day for about 30 years. He had gout disease and took analgesic medicine. Ultrasonography in our outpatient department revealed a large tumour with central necrosis, measuring about 11 cm in diameter, occupying the right lobe and left hydronephrosis. Gastroscopy revealed pathology of active gastric ulcers without Helicobacter pylori infection. In laboratory studies, the patient had a high serum α-fetoprotein (AFP) level of 4280 ng/ml (normal range, 0-13.4 ng/ml) and a positive hepatitis C antibody. We subsequently performed computed tomography (CT) of the liver, which revealed a large tumour with central necrosis, about 12 cm in diameter, located in segments 7 and 8 of the right lobe (), along with left hydronephrosis and a ureter stone.
The CT scan also revealed tumour thrombus in the posterior branches of the right portal vein ().
According to Barcelona-Clinic Liver Cancer classification, we made the diagnosis of HCC with portal vein thrombosis []. However, the patient refused any invasive therapy and examination for HCC, such as a biopsy, surgery, radiofrequency ablation, or transcatheter arterial chemoembolization (TACE). The patient agreed only to treatment for left hydronephrosis and the ureter stone, and the regular, oral administration of silymarin medicine of 450 mg per day.
The patient was regularly followed-up in our outpatient department with ultrasonography and examination of serum α-fetoprotein levels. The tumour size gradually decreased, and the α-fetoprotein level slowly declined () until December 2006. The patient did not take any herbs or other curative or palliative therapy during the HCC shrinkage.
CT scan of the liver was performed