A 56-year-old Chinese female presented on admission to our gastroenterology ward on May 2007, with a history of abdominal dull pain of 2 weeks duration and a weight loss of 6 kg duration a 2-month period. The abdominal pain became progressively worse and most tender in the right upper quarter (RUQ). She had had HBV infection for 15 years but follow up was irregular. She denied alcohol or smoking history. Result of physical examination showed RUQ tenderness and hepatomegaly. Results of laboratory workup revealed aspartate aminotransferase level of 130 IU/L, alanine aminotransferase level of 50 IU/L, total bilirubin level of 0.6 mg/dl and alkaline phosphatase level of 609 IU/L. The level of serum AFP was elevated (9457 ng/ml) but the levels of CEA and carbohydrate antigen 19-9 (CA19-9) were within the normal range. Serum was positive for hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg), but negative for HBeAg. The serum anti-HCV was also negative.
Abdominal ultrasound (US) demonstrated multiple hepatic tumors at the bilateral lobe and mild chronic liver disease. Abdominal computed tomography (CT) showed multiple hepatic tumors sized 3-7 cm in the bilateral lobes of the liver and wall thickening in the stomach (). No cirrhotic change was observed. Based on the image findings, the elevated AFP and underlying HBV infection of the patient, HCC was highly suspected and a US-guided liver biopsy was performed for definite diagnosis (). Subsequent upper GI endoscopy also revealed a 5-cm slight protruding tumor with a central ulceration at the great curvature extending from the low body to antrum of the stomach ().
Gastric biopsy revealed a moderately differentiated tubular adenocarcinoma and poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma morphologically (). However, the histopathological and immunohistochemical (IHC) findings demonstrated that tumor in the stomach is characterized by an admixture of tubular adenocarcinoma with hepatoid component and the tumor in liver showed hepatoid differentiation with identifiable glandular structure ( and ). The results of