We present a case of 68-years-old Indian, Hindu male patient who landed in emergency room with severe pain over lower abdomen associated with distention of abdomen and bloody diarrhea of one day duration. Patient gave history of intermittent lower abdominal pain and diarrhea for last eight months. Before coming to our institute he was diagnosed as a case of inflammatory bowel disease and was being treated with acetyl-salisylic acid (Mesacol 800 mg TDS) and intermittent steroid therapy for eight months. He was a chronic alcoholic and smoker. On examination, patient looked toxic with pulse rate of 126/minute. Tenderness and guarding was present all over abdomen. Blood samples were immediately sent for routine investigations, which were significant for the presence of leucocytosis (18,300/cmm), Na+ 129 mEq/l and K+ 2.9 mEq/l. ELISA test for HIV detection was negative. Urine sample was also sent for routine microscopy which showed few pus cells and presence of E. coli. Abdominal radiograph in erect position showed dilated bowel loops but no free air under the diaphragm. Ultrasonography of abdomen was asked for, which revealed distended large bowel loops with no fluid collection in peritoneal cavity. On per rectal examination rectum was empty and examining finger was tinged with blood and mucous.
Intravenous antibiotics in the form of a combination of ceftriaxone, amikacine and metrogyl were started and patient was taken for exploratory laparotomy. Intra-operatively, multiple large areas of necrosis were found involving almost entire colon. Almost whole length of ascending and descending colon, and proximal sigmoid colon was perforated into the retro-peritoneum at multiple sites. Pelvic cavity was free from any fluid collection but minimal fluid was found in retroperitoneal space. Total colectomy with proximal ileostomy and exteriorization of distal end of sigmoid colon as mucous fistula was done. Luminal surface of resected colon had multiple ulcers measuring 3 mm to 5 cm, covered at place with