A 56-year-old Caucasian woman was referred to our hospital after a chest X-ray showed a dense mass in the left middle lung (). The patient had been complaining of increasing dyspnea during exercise since one year and symptoms of chronic bronchitis for several weeks, which was resistant to therapy. No family history of cancer was reported and the patient had no history of smoking. Clinical examination was without any pathological findings except for dullness and reduced breath sounds over the right lung. Chest computed tomography (CT) showed a 3.0 × 5.0 cm intrathoracic tumor, which was surrounded by pneumatocele ( and ). This seemed most consistent by morphological criteria with an extrapulmonary, mediastinal benign solitary fibrous tumor. No metastases where found in lymph nodes or distant organs.
Bronchoscopic examination revealed a constriction of the left upper lobe but no endobronchial tumor. CT-guided percutaneous needle biopsy was performed and histological H&E examination at the Institute of Pathology Medical University Innsbruck showed a monomorphic cell rich spindle cell proliferation with mild nuclear atypia. The characteristic H&E morphology of the core biopsy together with homogenous vimentin positivity, bcl-2 positivity and focal keratin (CAM 5.2, CK7, CK19) as well as EMA positivity together with the absence of S-100 Protein (rules out malignant peripheral nerve sheath tumor with focal keratin expression), calretinin (rules out mesothelioma together with the clinical picture and the negative history for asbest exposure) and CD34 (rules out solitary fibrous tumor) led to the diagnosis of a monophasic synovial sarcoma.
Discussion at the multi-disciplinary bone and soft tissue tumor board (MUI) as well as in the lung and mediastinal tumor board (MUI) decided to do primary surgery as there was no spread of disease, no metastases on X-ray and CT. The tumor was surgically resected by thoracotomy (). The mediastinal mass was in close association with the phrenic nerve, which had