A 32-year-old Turkish man was admitted to the emergency department because of severe intrascapular back pain, an episode of unconsciousness and weakness of both legs. Bilateral proximal muscle weakness of the lower extremities had started approximately 4 hours before admission and progressed rapidly. Three hours after appearance of the weakness the patient collapsed and was unconscious for 2 minutes, accompanied by urinary incontinence. No seizure was observed. After regaining consciousness he complained about severe intrascapular back pain, stabbing in nature without radiation. Initially the blood pressure was 80/60 mmHg, the heart rate was 100 bpm and the blood glucose level was 223 mg/dl. Emergency treatment with rapid infusion of cristalloid fluids was started and the patient was transferred to the hospital. When the patient arrived at the emergency department the blood pressure was 110/60 mmHg and the heart rate was 120 bpm. On his trunk and arms were confluating erythematous patches which appeared 3 days ago. Body temperature was normal. His muscle strength was found to be 2/5 on the MRC scale (Medical Research Council Paralysis Scale) in both lower extremities and 3/5 in both upper extremities. The deep tendon reflexes were somewhat diminished, otherwise neurological and physical examination were normal. He smoked 50 cigarettes a day and his alcohol intake was moderate. The family history was negative for cardiovascular disease. Beside nephrectomy after traumatic kidney rupture in childhood no relevant previous disease was present and no previous muscle weakness was noticed. However he reported that he consulted his GP the same morning for treatment of the erythematous patches. The GP gave him a pulse i.v. corticosteroid infusion (250 mg prednisolone).
The electrocardiogram revealed a sinus tachycardia of 118 bpm, a prolonged QTc interval, ST-segment depressions in all leads and T-U-wave complexes in the lateral leads (). To rule out an aortic dissection a contrast computed tomography of the chest was performed immediately after admission, however no structural abnormality was detected. The