An 18-year-old male patient from Greece was admitted to our department due to chronic nonspecific knee pain (for the last 3 months) for a plain X-ray and an MRI examination.
Clinical examination two weeks prior to MRI revealed pain at the medial compartment and a meniscal tear was considered the most probable diagnosis, as the patient was also a semi-professional footballer. Physical examination revealed no skin stigmata, orbital pathology or other pathologic conditions. There was no history of previous trauma and his medical history was unremarkable. Laboratory findings were also unremarkable. No medication at the time of the examination except occasionally anti-inflammatory agents. The patients did not smoke or drink. From family history, and according to information from patient’s father, his mother died 3 years ago (at the age of 42) from an ovarian cancer and his little brother at the age of 3 from a brain tumour (no more data were available).
Plain X-ray () revealed a geographic lytic lesion at the medial aspect of the proximal tibia with no evidence of soft tissue mass or internal calcifications. Small periosteal reaction demonstrated at the lower aspect of the lesion. CT examination () confirmed the findings of plain X-ray and showed a lytic geographic lesion with wide zone of transition at its lateral aspect causing slight expansion and thinning of the cortical bone, scalloping of the endosteum, no soft tissue extraosseous mass. Internal amorphous calcifications were demonstrated inside the lesion. MRI contrast enhanced examination () revealed a lesion of fairly homogenous low signal intensity at T1-weighted sequences, mainly cystic lesion with fluid-fluid levels at T2-weighted images. After contrast agent administration () enhancing viable tissue was detected mainly at the periphery of the lesion. CT of the lungs, MRI examination of the rest of the tibia and bone scintigraphy was negative. Biopsy of the lesion showed telangiectatic osteosarcoma. The patient underwent initially chemotherapy followed by resection of the proximal tibia with prosthesis implantation. As far