A 32-year-old, Australian Caucasian man who was a national competing power lifter was referred to our specialist sports clinic 8 weeks after experiencing sudden intractable pain in his left knee, accompanied by a loud popping sound, whilst leg pressing 300 kg. Weight bearing and extension of his left leg were subsequently limited as a result of pain. Prior to attending our clinic, he had been managed non-operatively by his General Practitioner and a Physiotherapist, who had provided him with a knee brace for support. Despite this, he suffered continued pain and weakness, but denied any locking, giving way or instability.
He was a non-smoker, with no past medical problems and expressly denied using systemic steroids. He had not previously experienced any knee problems. Clinical examination revealed left quadriceps wasting in comparison to the contra-lateral leg with a palpable gap over the superior-lateral aspect of his patella. Knee flexion, in particular squatting, evoked pain and accentuated the gap. This also further demarcated the prominent, retracted vastus lateralis muscle belly (). A normal range of active movement was retained; however power in extension was diminished in comparison with the other leg. There was no extension lag and no clinical evidence of ligamentous or meniscal pathology within the knee joint.
Blood tests showed no evidence of haematological or metabolic abnormality.
Anterior-posterior, lateral and skyline patella radiographs of the knee showed no diagnostic irregularity and no evidence of femoral trochlea dysplasia or variation in patella height or tilt. MRI demonstrated a complete and isolated avulsion of the vastus lateralis component of the quadriceps tendon in the osteotendinous region at its patella insertion (). The patient was keen for operative intervention as he had already undertaken a course of unsuccessful conservative therapy and was anxious to expedite his return to training.
Intra-operative findings confirmed an avulsion of vastus lateralis with a residual stump of osteotendinous tissue still