A 22-year-old Greek man was admitted to our hospital with an 18-month history of recurrent lower abdominal pain. The pain was located at the hypogastrium and intensified after the ingestion of a meal. The patient also complained about postprandial urgency for defecation which temporarily worsened the pain. Finally, the pain was totally relieved after defecation. He did not mention any other symptoms including fever, nausea, diarrhea, constipation, weight loss, rectal bleeding.
The patient stressed that his symptoms had begun a few days after the inadvertent ingestion of a toothpick, which was had been concealed in a fast-food potato by his friends for a joke. He reported that he bolted the potato without chewing, and although he was informed about the joke he never saw the toothpick in his stools. Shortly after that event, he suffered from postprandial abdominal pain and urgency for defecation. He sought for medical help at the emergency department of a city general hospital, but due to the negative results of the examinations, the symptoms were attributed to irritable bowel syndrome. Thereafter, the patient was accustomed to the postprandial abdominal pain without treatment. When he joined the army, progressive worsening of the severity and the frequency of the abdominal pain led him to the emergency department of our hospital.
His past medical history was unremarkable for significant illness including previous abdominal surgical procedures. The patient did not take any medications; he was a smoker (20 cigarettes per day) and consumed small amounts of alcohol infrequently (20 g once or twice a week). Physical examination revealed a nervous, healthy, well-nourished young man, with normal vital signs without any clinical findings except for a mild discomfort to deep palpation of the hypogastrium. The bowel sounds were normal. There were no palpable masses, no guarding or peritoneal signs. The rectal examination revealed normal sphincter tone, no tenderness or mass, and normal appearance of the stool. The laboratory data