A 48-year-old, para 5, postmenopausal black African woman who was human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-negative presented to our casualty department with a 5-year history of progressive abdominal swelling. Five years prior to presenting, which was 1 year before she reached menopause, she had noticed that her abdomen was gradually distending. Her symptoms were associated with constipation, feeling of incomplete rectal emptying, early satiety, vomiting, and urinary frequency and urgency. She did not have any chronic illnesses and had a negative personal and family history of ovarian, uterine, bowel, and breast cancers. She was not receiving any medication prior to this presentation. She had delivered five children by cesarean section, and they were all alive and well. She lived in a rural area and was a subsistence farmer. She did not smoke and did not drink alcohol.
She had ascitic taps three times in 1 week at a district hospital before referral to a higher-level hospital because of recurrent reaccumulation of ascites. A transabdominal ultrasound scan (USS) showed generalized ascites with a thick fluid with septa, as well as bilateral mild hydroureter and hydronephrosis. Again, the ascites was drained twice. One month later, she underwent computed tomography (CT), which showed a large predominantly cystic lesion that occupied almost the entire abdominal and pelvic cavities, which were distended, causing a marked mass effect on surrounding organs and bowel. The lesion had areas of internal septation predominantly on the right flank with no features of metastatic disease. Tumor markers measured during this admission are shown in Table .
The patient was referred to a tertiary hospital but only went 5 years later. Upon admission, she had marked temporal wasting, with bilateral pitting lower limb edema extending to her sacrum. She had a normal breast examination. Her blood pressure was elevated at 167/93 mmHg, with tachycardia of 150 beats/min. Her body temperature was 36.8 °C. She had equal air entry bilaterally, and