A 66 yrs old gentleman was referred for urgent psychiatric assessment as he complained of severe mood swings, which ranged from anger to tearfulness. He had no previous psychiatric history. When seen he gave a 2-week history of exaggerated egosyntonic unipolar affective reactions with symptoms of overwhelming tiredness and sadness, and difficulty in concentrating. A few months earlier, he was diagnosed with eczema in a dermatology clinic and was prescribed fucibet cream (betamethasone with fusidic acid), which is classed as potent corticosteroid. His skin condition did not improve satisfactorily and was considered to have recalcitrant eczema. He was then prescribed clobetasol propionate cream, which is classed as a very potent corticosteroid. As advised, he applied the cream twice daily and to the areas affected i.e. forehead, neck, arms, and chest. Ever since he commenced clobetasol cream, he began to experience severe mood swings. He described these experiences to immediately follow the application of the cream to his body and the episodes lasted upto couple of hours each time. Despite these experiences, he continued to apply the cream, as he has seen an improvement with his skin condition. His medication history suggests that he has drug sensitivity as he reacted badly to local anesthetic for a nasal surgery and he is also allergic to penicillin.
He is not known to drink alcohol, smoke cigarettes or take illicit substances. He was not on any other medications at the time of contact and had no significant medical history. He denied any other difficulties in his life and there were no other symptoms of depression, mania, anxiety, psychosis, or cognitive impairment. There is no family history of psychiatric illness.
From the assessment, given the clear relation between the commencement of the corticosteroid cream and the affective reactions and the absence of any other significant contributors to the presentation, it was concluded that the psychiatric manifestation was secondary to the topical corticosteroid preparation, cl