A 48-year-old lady presented with increasing confusion following a three-day history of fever, shortness of breath, and productive cough. Her background included heavy smoking, heavy ethanol use, and two prior hospital admissions for pneumonia and exacerbation of chronic obstructive airways disease.
At presentation she was febrile, delirious, and tachypneic with low oxygen saturations, relative hypotension, and new onset atrial fibrillation with a rapid ventricular response. Her chest X-ray revealed dense right upper and middle lobe consolidation. Initial treatment consisted of oxygen therapy, intravenous fluid resuscitation, noninvasive ventilation, and antibiotics (ceftriaxone and azithromycin) for her community acquired pneumonia. She reverted to sinus tachycardia after treatment with digoxin. She was prescribed benzodiazepines for apparent alcohol withdrawal agitation.
She was transferred to our institution after two days in established multiorgan failure with shock, respiratory failure, coagulopathy. Invasive organ support was initiated with intubation, mechanical ventilation, vigorous fluid resuscitation, vasopressors, and inotropes. Blood and sputum cultures taken at the time of her initial presentation grew Klebsiella pneumoniae sensitive to all antibiotics except amoxicillin. Antibiotics were changed to ceftriaxone and ciprofloxacin. Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) screen was negative. Echocardiography revealed normal valve function, with no sign of vegetations and normal chamber size and function.
By day 3 in the ICU, her gas exchange had improved. Though tachycardic and febrile, she maintained sinus rhythm and sustained a mean arterial pressure above 70 mm Hg without vasopressor support. Sedation was then discontinued for the first time since intubation. Her pupils were noted to react to light but she was unresponsive to painful stimuli. There was no further change to her neurological status 24 hours after stopping sedation.
On day 5, she had a focal seizure limited to her left arm, lasting less than a minute. Her pupils were equal but noted to be unreactive, her gaze was divergent and a flaccid quadriplegia and absence of deep tendon