A 38-year-old white South African female presented to the Emergency department complaining of an 8 hour history of sudden onset generalized, severe abdominal pain associated with very liquid green-brown stools.
The pain was colicky in nature and there were no alleviating or exacerbating factors. Frequency of passing stool was increased from one stool a day to six stools in the previous 12 hours. There was no blood passed per rectum. There was no nausea, vomiting, or dysuria.
There was no previous history of abdominal pain and no recent history of weight loss, anaemia, jaundice, or lethargy. There were no risk factors for food poisoning and all contacts were well.
One year prior to presentation the patient recalled noticing an odourless mucous-like discharge present at the beginning and end of her period.
Four months prior to presentation the patient had visited family in South Africa. She stayed in an air conditioned house and did not visit any malaria endemic regions.
Three months previously a routine smear test had shown moderate dyskaryosis. Colposcopy and biopsy were performed and the patient was diagnosed with cervical intra-epithelial neoplasia grade III (CIN III). The patient was nulliparous, had a regular 28 day menstrual cycle, and denied abnormal bleeding and dysparunia.
There was no other previous medical or surgical history and the patient took no regular medications but was penicillin allergic, reporting previous penicillin associated breathlessness and rash.
There was no significant family history. The patient lived with her long term male partner in a house and worked as a secretary in an office. She had never smoked. She drank moderately consuming approximately six units of alcohol per week. She denied intravenous drugs use and had had unprotected sexual intercourse only with her long term partner for the past two years.
On examination, the patient was in visible discomfort. There was no scleral yellowing or conjunctival pallor. There were no stigmata of chronic