A 45-year-old African American female presented to the emergency department (ED) with a new onset of dizziness, difficulty walking, and low blood pressure. Her past medical history was significant for hypercholesterolemia, hypertension, and a recent urinary tract infection. She smoked tobacco but used neither alcohol nor illegal drugs. There was no history of asbestos exposure or recent viral illness. Physical examination was unremarkable. Lab work was performed and showed normal results, so the patient was released. The following day, she returned to the ED once again, and reported that her symptoms had escalated significantly. Soon thereafter the patient developed multiple organ failure with subsequent cardiac arrest, passing into pulseless electrical activity, and her death was pronounced. The initial significant autopsy finding was the discovery of approximately one liter of blood within the pericardial cavity. The pericardial sac was focally adhesed to the surface of the heart. The pericardial surface of the heart was markedly granular and thickened. An area on the pericardium of the anterior left ventricle was focally disrupted without frank tearing or laceration and blood was observed to ooze through this defect. Gross photographs were not taken due to the initial impression of classic pericarditis. The remainder of the postmortem examination was negative for grossly suspicious malignancy, including pleural, pulmonary and lymphoreticular involvement. No abdominal or pelvic pathology was identified. In particular, there was no omental or peritoneal caking, and no ovarian, renal, or hepatic masses were identified. Microscopic examination of tissue sections taken from the epicardium revealed dense lymphocytic infiltrates admixed with numerous neoplastic, polygonal cells with abundant cytoplasm and enlarged, irregular nuclei containing conspicuous nucleoli. Some of these tumor cell clusters formed gland-like formations and papillary structures (Figure ). Abundant necrosis and marked desmoplasia were present. Scattered karyorrhectic cells were present while mitotic figures were not identified. There was only mininal tumoral infiltration into the underlying myocardium. P