A 64-year-old man was referred to our department with eight-day progressive edema and pain of the inferior limbs, with predominance on the right side. He reported no history of prior venous thromboembolic event, recent trauma, surgery, malignancy, or travel. He had a medical history significant for type 2 diabetes mellitus, dyslipidemia, smoking, and a prior hospitalization for a stroke, from which he had a complete recovery. Besides confirming the presence of a significant pitting edema reaching the proximal thigh bilaterally, even though more prominent on the right side, physical examination revealed a pulsatile abdominal mass. An ultrasound was immediately performed. It showed the presence of extensive bilateral lower extremity deep vein thrombosis in the common iliac, external iliac, femoral, and popliteal venous system. It also confirmed the presence of 8.7 cm diameter AAA. He was admitted for anticoagulant therapy and further evaluation of the AAA. Computed Tomography (CT) demonstrated a compression of the IVC by an AAA moderately developing to the right, with apparent collapse and caudal thrombosis and a nonfunctioning right kidney (urea and creatinine blood levels remained within a normal range) (). Subsequently, an IVC filter was placed infrarenally through transjugular access. Inferior vena cavagram performed before the deployment of the filter, confirmed the collapse of the IVC (). Anticoagulation was suspended immediately before AAA surgical repair. After a transperitoneal approach, the aneurismal sac was exposed in the retroperitoneum. A meticulous dissection of the aneurysm was required until reaching the neck at the left renal vein level because of the proximity of IVC and the presence of abnormally dilated retroperitoneal veins. No macroscopic signs of inflammatory AAA were observed (). After having opened the aneurysm sac, the thrombus was removed in an attempt to decompress the IVC. The common femoral arteries were then dissected bilaterally and a 14/7 mm knitted Dacron aortofemoral graft was placed after heparinization. The proximal anastomosis was constructed end-to-end whereas distal anastomoses were