A 66-year-old Caucasian man was admitted to our surgical department with the diagnosis of a rectal cancer 8 cm from the anal verge. He had a colonoscopy due to the presence of blood in his stools for a month prior to his admission. Endoscopy revealed a polypoid lesion of the rectum and the pathology diagnosed an adenocarcinoma.
From his medical history, we ascertained that he had pulmonary tuberculosis at the age of 25 years, cholocystectomy at the age of 61 and that he currently had ischemic heart disease. The patient had no history of tobacco smoking and no allergies. Laboratory tests were normal. Preoperative staging was negative on abdominal and chest computed tomography scans. The patient did not receive neoadjuvant therapy.
A laparoscopic low anterior resection was performed with an end-to-end anastomosis. The operation was converted to an open laparotomy due to technical problems in the completion of the anastomosis and the intraoperative observation of oozing from the presacral fascia. Microscopic examination of the specimen revealed a moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma of the rectum with adequate resection margins and no metastases in the 16 resected lymph nodes. By World Health Organisation classification, this was a T3N0 M0 tumor.
The immediate postoperative course was uneventful. On the fourth postoperative day, the patient developed abdominal pain and dyspnea. Physical examination revealed tachycardia (130 beats per minute), hypertension (systolic blood pressure of 210 mmHg) and fever (38.1°C). The patient had a normal blood count and hypoxia was diagnosed on arterial blood gases (saturation 88%, PO2 56 mmHg). He received intramuscular analgesics (pethidine 75 mg four times daily) and intravenous antibiotics (piperacillin-tazobactam 4.5 gm and metronidazole 500 mg three times daily).
The patient underwent an emergent laparotomy on the same day. Anastomotic rupture with fecal peritonitis was diagnosed. Intraperitoneal lavage and a loop ileostomy were performed. Two drain catheters were placed in the pelvis next to the anastomosis and the abdomen was left open