The patient, CK, is a 22-year-old Chinese male suffering from epilepsy since the age of two and is currently working in a sheltered workshop. He had no relevant family medical history and did not smoke or drink alcohol. He had persistent and frequent seizure episodes at about four times a month. He underwent magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scan on his brain in 2005, and was found to have left mesial temporal sclerosis and left frontal proencephalic cyst. Results of video electroencephalogram (EEG) also revealed a focal onset in the left frontal-temporal region. Neuropsychological assessments indicated that CK was moderately impaired in verbal memory (with immediate recall of 6 out of 16 words and rapid forgetting after 10 minutes) as measured by the Hong Kong List Learning Test (HKLLT) [], and moderately impaired in naming common objects as measured by the Boston Naming Test (BNT; with a score of 18/30) []. He also showed signs of frontal-lobe dysfunction, e.g., difficulty in retrieving learnt verbal information and mildly impaired verbal organization and inhibitory control. Nevertheless, he was generally intact in general intelligence, visual attention and memory functions. In May 2005, CK received left hippocampectomy, after which his seizure frequency was substantially reduced to six episodes a year.
In August 2006, CK suffered from a severe seizure resulting in further deterioration in his language, attention, memory, initiation of behavior, emotional control and motor functions. In the following eight months, he underwent treatments including hyperbaric oxygen therapy, acupuncture, and physiotherapy. Nevertheless, his cognitive functions except motor ability remained severely impaired. He had to live with his mother's assistance and could only work in a sheltered workshop. CK began to receive DMBI two years after the incident and one year after all other interventions ended. At baseline before receiving the DMBI, we assessed CK on his cognitive functions using the BNT, Chinese Mini-Mental Status Examination (CMMSE) and Multil