A 59-year-old Greek man of Caucasian origin presented with cough and trivial haemoptysis for three days; he was a non-smoker fur-maker in excellent health status, unremarkable medical history and normal physical examination. Chest radiography revealed a homogenous tumour-like opacity (6 cm in diameter) in the upper lung zone near the right hilum (Figure ). No supraclavicular lymphadenopathy was detected. Computed tomography scanning of the thorax showed a large (6 × 6 cm), almost spherical mass in the right upper lobe and a massive solitary lesion in the spleen (7 cm in its greatest diameter). The mediastinum and the other chest structures were normal. Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) of the upper abdomen showed a massive solitary lesion in the spleen with a low-density core and a peripheral contrast enhancement suggestive of metastasis (Figure ). Haematological and biochemical test results were normal, except for a slightly elevated level of erythrocyte sedimentation rate (33 mm/h) and of C-reactive protein (2.66 U/L).
Bronchoscopic examination revealed a mass within the posterior segmental bronchus of the right upper lobe and biopsy confirmed the diagnosis of squamous carcinoma of moderate-to-low differentiation. A routine workup was negative for liver, adrenal, brain or bone metastatic lesions. A fine needle biopsy of the spleen under radiological guidance confirmed the diagnosis of metastasis from the primary lung carcinoma. The TNM stage of disease was cT2N0M1 (stage IV). Respiratory function tests were within normal limits.
Surgical removal of both the primary tumour and the solitary splenic metastasis offered the patient the best treatment option. The patient was scheduled for a simultaneous right thoracotomy and splenectomy. Initially a standard right posterolateral thoracotomy was performed. A thorough exploration of the pleural cavity revealed a 6 cm tumor of the right upper lobe that was extended to the apical segment of the lower lobe. Under these circumstances, the intraoperative decision was for a right pneumonectomy, which was finally performed.