An 83 year old retired Caucasian lady was admitted to a UK hospital with a recent history of back pain without any trauma. She had no significant past medical history of note and her only regular medication included a statin for cholesterol. She was a non-smoker and drunk only minimal amounts of alcohol. X-rays on admission demonstrated severe osteoporosis with multiple collapsed lumbar vertebrae. Whilst awaiting a brace and social support she developed diarrhoea and vomiting. An initial stool sample was negative for clostridium difficile serotoxin. Over the next few days her clinical condition deteriorated and by day 6 her C-reactive protein was 357. She developed abdominal distension, pain and a plain x-ray showed centralised dilated small bowel loops. A subsequent CT scan of her abdomen revealed small bowel obstruction together with mural thickening of the distal ileum (see Figure ).
Following CT the patient developed signs of localised peritonitis and underwent a laparotomy. At surgery necrosis and ischaemia was seen in a large portion of mid-ileum together with large quantities of pus and a localised perforation. A small bowel resection of 60 cm was performed. Histology revealed an acute gangrenous ileitis. Blood, urine and stool cultures were all negative but reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) of stool cultures revealed Norovirus genogroup II. Immunoassay of the stool was negative for rotavirus and adenovirus. No specific testing for astrovirus was performed. Immunological testing of the histological specimens was not performed.
The patient had no prior history of vascular disease to suggest the cause of the ileitis was ischaemic enterocolitis. Furthermore despite the patient's back pain she had been mobilising around her bed in the hospital therefore it is unlikely that the cause of the ileitis was paralytic ileus secondary to immobility. The patient received only as required opiate analgesia and this was co-administered with appropriate laxative cover to avoid constipation. A diagnosis of acute gangrenous ileitis secondary to Norovirus was therefore made