A 28-year-old white-man was referred to our hospital because he was complaining of a dry cough for 2 months; the cough had become associated with dyspnea in the week before he was referred to the hospital
He had previously been healthy with no history of smoking or alcohol intake. Physical examination revealed that, on thoracic auscultation, the heart and lung sounds were clearly audible. Chest imaging, including X-ray and computed tomography (CT), revealed a mass, measuring 15 × 12 × 10 cm, in the anterior mediastinum with pericardial and pleural effusions. Fine-needle puncture of the lesion revealed undifferentiated cells suggestive of lymphoma.
Diagnostic anterior mediastinotomy was performed on the patient to obtain a biopsy of the lesion and to complete the examination prior to the start of treatment.
Following fiberoptic tracheal intubation without sedation, general anaesthesia was administered. Diagnostic mediastinotomy was performed without incident, after which the patient exhibited peripheral desaturation to a level of 60%. The patient had to be intubated again and was kept in the intensive care unit.
Pathology revealed evidence of a yolk sac tumor, and laboratory results showed a marked elevation of serum alpha-fetoprotein (AFP) of up to 16780 ng/ml with normal serum levels of β-human chorionic gonadotropin. The patient received chemotherapy with EP (VP-16 or etoposide and cisplatin) without bleomycin to decrease the risk of pulmonary toxicity. As the patient showed very slow improvement, he had to undergo a tracheostomy to maintain tracheal intubation. Three courses of chemotherapy, adjusted to obtain the required dose per square meter (height, 182 cm; weight, 100 Kg), and 8 Gy of radiotherapy were necessary to reduce the tumor to a size sufficient for extubation and discharge to the hospitalization plant.
The tumor shrank to 10 × 7 × 5 cm and serum AFP dropped to 3750 ng/ml.
Overall, the patient remained a total of 70 days in the intensive care unit and was intubated for 62 days.