A 21-year-old healthy young girl suffered a ski-ing injury to her right flank. She is a non-smoker and does not have any significant medical or family history. An ultrasound scan performed three months after the accident showed a large subcutaneous haematoma in right posterior paraspinal region. There was no significant Doppler flow in that area. She was initially managed conservatively. The haematoma appeared to increase in size and she subsequently had a CT scan, which showed a 13 × 10 × 20 cm well defined low density cystic mass occupying the right flank and descending posteriorly to involve the gluteal muscles and upper thigh. The swelling had fine septations but was otherwise uniform in echo density and there was no infiltration into the deep muscular layers. The features were consistent with a resolving haematoma with no evidence of acute haemorrhage. Her routine haematological investigations including haemoglobin on admission were within normal limits. She was investigated for bleeding diathesis and there was no evidence of one. There was no family history of bleeding diathesis.
An attempted aspiration under local anaesthesia was unsuccessful. In view of the increasing swelling and discomfort an MRI scan of the abdomen and pelvis (Figure and ) was obtained. This revealed a large well-defined ovoid fluid collection in the left side of the back extending inferiorly into the left gluteal region. It measured 14 × 10 cm in transverse dimension and 20 cm in cranio-caudal extent. The collection appeared to be situated superficial to the muscles of the back and the gluteal region but deep to the posterior layer of the thoraco-lumbar fascia. Multiple irregular septations were noted.
All features were in keeping with a large sub-fascial organised haematoma. The source of bleeding was probably disrupted sub-fascial veins from the force of blunt trauma. In view of the ongoing pain and disfigurement the haematoma plus organised capsule was evacuated and excised enbloc. 1.5 litres of old