A 53 year-old dark-complexioned male who underwent renal allograft transplantation four years ago, presented with swelling and pain of the left hand that had progressed over the last two months. Before his admission, he was managed as a case of cellulitis with antibiotics, magnesium sulphate dressings, and antiinflammatory drugs, with no improvement of symptoms. The swelling and pain was prominent in the distal palm and fingers, and increased in the dependent position with mild improvement on limb elevation. A reddish dusky hue was noticed for a few weeks in the distal palm and fingers []. There was no sensory impairment, paresthesia, or loss of movement of the hand. He denied any drug use other than his immunosupression regime of cyclosporine, azathioprine, and prednisolone. He did not smoke, consume alcohol, use illicit drugs, or operate heavy machinery.
Prior to transplantation, he was on maintenance hemodialysis using a left radiocephalic fistula for two years. Subclavian canulation or anatomical details of the fistula were unavailable as he was under treatment at another center.
Examination revealed an obvious swelling of the left hand with a minimal local rise of temperature, thinning with excoriation of the skin, and erythema of the distal palm and fingers []. Tenderness of the hand, especially distal to the carpal bones was seen. There was no wasting of hand muscles and movements of the hand were restricted due to severe pain. No sensory loss or evidence of median nerve compression was present. The arterial pulsations were normal and a patent left radiocephalic fistula was observed. The veins of the forearm as well as those around the wrist were thick-walled and bulging. The dusky hue and pain were enhanced when the hand was kept in a dependent position, and mildly reduced when elevated, or when the radial artery was digitally occluded. The veins of the hand did not collapse on limb elevation.
The oxygen saturation observed by a pulse oxymeter was normal. Ultrasound