A 63-year-old Japanese man presented with sudden onset chest pain radiating to his back and weakness in both lower limbs. Past medical history included mild coronary artery disease that did not require intervention, atrial fibrillation, secondary polycythemia associated with smoking, psoriasis and degenerative spondyloarthirits, and no history of other connective tissue disorders. There was no previous history of cerebrovascular or peripheral vascular disease. He was transferred to our institution over 12 hours from initial presentation, and was assessed by our multidisciplinary team (cardiothoracic surgeon, vascular surgeon and an interventional radiologist). On examination his blood pressure was 225/136 mmHg and there was clear ischemia of both lower limbs with bilateral absent femoral pulses. The sensory and motor function in the lower extremities was significantly reduced and abdominal examination was unremarkable.
Computed Tomographic Angiography (CTA) revealed a complex type-A aortic dissection with the primary entry in the aortic arch leading to a dissection flap arising within the inferior aspect of the aortic arch and distal aorta extending to involve the entire thoracic aorta. The true lumen was small and severely narrowed beyond the level of the right renal artery, disappearing entirely just above the aortic bifurcation (Figure and Figure ). No contrast could be visualized in the native iliac arteries and there was reduced blood flow in the celiac axis and the primary branches of the superior mesenteric artery which were perfused only by a very small channel of contrast seen extending from the true lumen. The transverse colon appeared thick-walled but both liver and spleen were normal. His left kidney was well perfused from the false lumen but there was no enhancement of the right kidney, which received its arterial supply from the true lumen. There was no involvement of the head and neck vessels or coronary arteries and there was no pleural or pericardial effusion.
Arterial bloods gas analysis revealed a mild acidosis (pH 7.34 with a base excess of -5.7) and an elevated lactate level of 11.9 mmol/lt. Blood