A 27-year-old white South African male presented at a periodontal practice complaining of painful "gums" particularly in the anterior part of the mouth, and halitosis. His general health was satisfactory; he was a non-smoker and other than grinding his teeth was not aware of any etiological factors, such as mouth breathing, that could have contributed to his problems.
After examination a diagnosis of necrotizing ulcerative gingivitis (NUG) was made, based on the classical punched out papillae, combined with the patient's symptoms of pain and halitosis.
The clinical picture was, however, more complex. In addition to the classical punched out papillae seen with NUG, there was inflammatory gingival hyperplasia, and marked occlusal wear (probably due to his grinding habit), and short clinical crowns, all of which, in the presence of plaque could contribute to the gingival inflammation (Figure ).
An intra-oral radiograph (Figure ) showed that the incisor teeth were not fully erupted. While the short clinical crowns could be due to occlusal wear or delayed tooth eruption, another possibility was that altered passive eruption (APE) was present, which is a predisposing factor to NUG []. Metronidazole 200 mg tablets three times a day were prescribed at the first visit and combined with palliative treatment, consisting of scaling, home care instruction and a mouthwash.
One week later, there was some resolution of the gingival inflammation (Figure ). Possible gingival and periodontal surgical correction of the apparent gingival overgrowth was discussed with the patient who chose not to have this treatment. Thereafter he was seen intermittently; three years after the initial consultation he presented with synthetic crowns on the maxillary incisors, placed there by another practitioner. The associated gingivae were red, shiny with rolled margins and marked inflammation (Figure ). Clinical examination also showed the presence of APE which we have defined as "when a tooth has reached the occlusal