A slender 87-year-old Caucasian lady presented with a five day history of colicky generalised abdominal pain and not opening her bowels. She was nauseated and vomited on a few occasions. She had no history of bleeding per rectum or change in bowel habit but she reported a one and a half stone weight loss over twelve months. She also described symptoms of urinary frequency. Her past medical history consisted of angina, valvular disease and an abdominal hysterectomy and salpingo-oophorectomy 20 years ago for post-menopausal bleeding with no evidence of malignancy. She was a non-smoker and consumed approximately seven units of alcohol per week. On clinical examination, there was tenderness in the right iliac fossa with generalised abdominal distension, bowel sounds were present and there was no guarding or rebound tenderness. The white cell count was normal at 7.9 × 109/L and the C-reactive protein titre was 37 mg/L. A plain abdominal radiograph displayed proximal small bowel loops and air in the large bowel (Figure ). A provisional diagnosis of small bowel obstruction secondary to adhesions or malignancy was made. She was treated conservatively with a nasogastric tube, catheterisation, intravenous fluids and kept nil by mouth. On review the following morning, the patient was complaining of a tender swelling in the right groin and increasing abdominal pain. A diagnosis of an incarcerated femoral hernia was made and the patient was taken to theatre for repair of her femoral hernia. Examination of the abdomen while the patient was on the operating table showed that the swelling had disappeared. A decision for a lower midline laparotomy was taken. At laparotomy, extensive diverticulosis of the jejunum was present with a diverticular stricture being the cause of small bowel obstruction and subsequent perforation (Figure ). The diseased segment of small bowel was resected with an end-to-end anastomosis. In addition, a small cystic swelling was found near the femoral canal. Careful inspection confirmed this to be