A 53-year-old Caucasian female with Ehlers Danlos syndrome presented with abdominal pain and vomiting to the Emergency Medicine Department. The pain was described as aching in character, initially beginning in the left iliac fossa and radiating to the left upper quadrant. The patient was unable to keep food down and had several episodes of vomiting over the course of the previous 24 hours. She felt distended but the bowel motion was unchanged with normal stools on the day of admission and no rectal bleeding. The patient recounted feeling feverish prior to admission. She had a previous history of diverticular disease and had seen her general practitioner (GP) four days earlier with abdominal pain. Her GP had started her empirically on oral Cefalexin and Metronidazole. Her past medical history consisted of diverticulosis within both the small and large bowel diagnosed on contrast studies (Figure ). She also had oesophagitis. The patient had also had two previous caesarean section deliveries which were uncomplicated and a right-sided inguinal hernia repair. The patient was neither a smoker nor drinker. The only history relating to her Ehlers Danlos was of thin skin and an increased bruising tendency, with mild difficulty in using her hands since childhood with occasional finger locking and decreased hand strength. There was no significant family history and none of connective tissue disorders.
On examination the abdomen was soft and minimally tender with no guarding, rigidity or rebound tenderness. Bowel sounds were present. Rectal examination revealed soft stool in the rectum. Chest radiograph was normal and abdominal films showed distended bowel loops. The patient's bloods on admission showed a normal white cell count of 6.9 and a raised C - reactive protein of 491. The other bloods were normal. The surgical team organised admission and converted her to intravenous antibiotics and fluids.
Over the next 48 hours, the abdominal pain continued to increase and was associated with intermittent vomiting with an inability to eat or drink. C -