Our patient is a 68-year-old white female with a two-year history of progressive dyspnea and a persistent non-productive cough. Past medical history included hypertension, lower extremity neuropathy of unknown etiology, and interstitial cystitis. She had a remote history of tobacco use but no exposures to other toxins. Family history was positive for stroke, diabetes, coronary artery disease, and gastric cancer. Physical exam was normal except for bilateral trace lower extremity edema. No jugular venous distension, heart murmur, or tumor plop was present.
Four months previously, a CT scan of the chest, pulmonary function tests, and a pulmonary angiogram were normal. A sleep study showed no apnea but nocturnal hypoxia prompting a prescription for home O2 at night.
At the time of re-evaluation, a transthoracic echocardiogram (TTE) demonstrated a normal ejection fraction of 60% with normal chamber dimensions but showed a large right atrial mass with high flow velocity around the echodensity. A small patent foramen ovale (PFO) was also present. Estimated pulmonary artery pressure was 44 mmHg. A transesophageal echocardiogram confirmed the large immobile right atrial mass, which involved the IVC. A CT scan revealed a cystic dense mass in the IVC and the right atrium with no evidence of pulmonary emboli or metastases (Figure ). The abdomen and pelvis were negative with no evidence of renal cell carcinoma, which can also present with IVC involvement.
There was mild cerebral atrophy without evidence of intracranial masses on a CT scan of the head. A combined PET (positron emission tomography)/CT scan of the chest showed a partially contrast-enhancing intraluminal mass within the intrahepatic and suprahepatic inferior vena cava extending into the right atrium. There was no extension into the hepatic veins. The mass markedly narrowed the suprahepatic inferior vena cava and right atrium with only a small amount of residual lumen noted medially. There was diffuse heterogeneity of the liver without evidence of mass lesion, suggesting hepatic venous congestion. The PET imaging demonstrated