The transplant recipient is a 58-year-old female who developed type I diabetes mellitus at 6 months old and used an insulin pump for blood sugar control. She developed end organ damage including renal failure but was not yet dialysis dependent. She also suffered from retinopathy and peripheral neuropathy. She did not have hypoglemic unawareness and had good blood sugar control with her insulin pump. The remainder of her medical history included hypertension, hyperlipidemia, and hypothyroidism. She had remote hysterectomy and appendectomy. She underwent a full evaluation for kidney and pancreas transplantation without significant findings. She was approved and listed for combined simultaneous kidney pancreas transplantation. At the time of transplantation her panel of reactive antigen (PRA) was 0% and there were no identifiable HLA specific antibodies. Hr BMI was 26 at the time of transplantation.
The donor was a 31-year-old male motorcyclist who collided with a concrete medium at highway speed. He was not wearing a helmet. The donor did not have significant past medical or surgical history, except for smoking cigarettes and occasional marijuana. There was no history of renal calculi or recurrent urinary tract infections. The donor family was not aware of his congenital renal anomaly and the patient did not have other congenital anomalies. A computed tomography (CT) scan of the abdomen done at the time of admission revealed an ectopic right kidney located in the pelvis and fused with the lower pole of the left kidney, compatible with crossed fused renal ectopia (). There were no other significant findings. The patient was hemodynamically stable with good urine output the time of procurement. The serum creatinine peaked at 1.8 and was 1.4 at the time of procurement. There was mild elevation of blood glucose requiring sliding- scale insulin.
The procurement of the kidneys, pancreas, and liver was completed in the standard fashion, flushing with Custodial HTK (Odyssey) solution. The kidneys were procured en bloc, with a complete cava and aorta. The