A 24-year-old fit-and-healthy ex-army officer presented with a two-day history of a cold, numb, and painful left lower leg; he had been doing vigorous exercises two days prior to admission. Over the past few months, the patient had experienced similar worsening leg pain after running long distances. Apart from smoking (5 pack years), the patient had no other significant cardiovascular risk factors.
Physical examination revealed a regular heart rate of 60 beats per minute and a blood pressure of 120/80 mm Hg. There was no palpable abdominal aortic aneurysm. Examination of the right leg was unremarkable. On the left side, there were normal palpable femoral and popliteal pulses, but no palpable distal pulses. The left foot also appeared paler; however, motor and sensory functions were intact.
An angiogram revealed a thrombotic occlusion of the proximal half of the popliteal artery and a small embolus in the mid-peroneal artery (). Intraarterial thrombolysis (Alteplase) was commenced. A 24-hour followup angiogram showed a reduction in the size of the thrombus; however, there was still a stricture at the midpopliteal artery with an irregularity of the wall. The stricture was accentuated with the foot in dorsiflexion and plantar flexion. At 48 hours, the angiogram demonstrated that the thrombus had largely resolved; however, the stricture was still present. The site of stenosis was angioplastied which resulted in a marked improvement in blood flow.
An MRI scan was subsequently performed and showed the medial head of the gastrocnemius muscle going between the popliteal artery and vein where it inserted in a more lateral position (). Having excluded bilateral disease on the MRI, the patient underwent surgery-division of the medial head of gastrocnemius with autogenous saphenous vein interposition graft. A postoperative duplex scan showed that the vein graft was patent with pulsatile signals. The patient's recovery was uneventful and he was discharged 3 weeks after hospitalisation.