The patient is a 68-year-old woman who presented to the hospital with less than 24 hours of right upper-quadrant abdominal pain and nausea. She had a past history of alcohol and tobacco abuse, although she had been abstinent from both for five years at the time of presentation. No HIV risk factors were identified. She did not have a fever, and she had moderate abdominal tenderness on examination. Her chest X-ray was interpreted as showing a right lower-lobe infiltrate (), and she received intravenous ceftriaxone and azithromycin for suspected community-acquired pneumonia. Because of persistent pain, an abdominal ultrasound was performed, which was negative for gallbladder wall thickening, stones, or pericholecystic fluid. A hepatobiliary iminodiacetic acid (HIDA) scan was also normal. The antibiotics were continued. The third day in the hospital, her abdomen became more diffusely tender and she developed atrial fibrillation with a rapid ventricular response. Her heart rate was controlled with intravenous diltiazem. An abdominal CT scan was performed, and it revealed multiple dilated loops of bowel anterior and superior to the liver, with associated free fluid (). Laboratory studies demonstrated a leukocytosis of 13,000 white blood cells/mm3 with a left shift and two-dimensional echocardiography revealed a moderate pericardial effusion, without evidence of hemodynamic compromise. She was taken to the operating room, where she was found to have an internal hernia, with an ischemic loop of ileum incarcerated between the liver and the diaphragm. The hernia was reduced, and the ischemic segment of bowel was resected. She also underwent a cholecystectomy during the same procedure. Ciprofloxacin and metronidazole were administered postoperatively.
On the first postoperative day, control of her atrial fibrillation worsened. An echocardiogram was repeated, revealing an increase in size of the pericardial effusion. The cardiothoracic surgical service was consulted, and two days later she was taken back to the operating room and underwent drainage of the effusion and construction of a pericardial window. The pericardial fluid contained 2 white blood cells/