A 61-year-old Caucasian male with a history of T2 N1 M0 squamous cell carcinoma of the tonsil (), curatively treated with surgery and adjuvant radiation therapy six years earlier and with a history of continued smoking and insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus was admitted to the hospital for chest pain. After excluding acute cardiac changes, diagnostic work-up revealed a large mass in the upper lobe of the left lung as well as multiple small nodules in both lungs and multiple osteolytic bone changes, with no evidence of locoregional recurrence in the head and neck region or of enlarged intrathoracic lymph nodes. Histology of the lung mass derived from bronchoscopy showed poorly differentiated squamous cell carcinoma (). No clear differentiation between metastases from the previous head and neck cancer and a second primary tumor could be made. Given the long time interval between the diagnosis of cancer the first time and the new findings with the evidence of tumor cells in the bronchial tree, a therapeutic approach for metastatic non-small cell lung cancer was chosen.
Treatment consisted of three courses of carboplatin/vinorelbine and monthly zoledronic acid. In the following period of stable disease (no reduction in lesion size), the patient developed three consecutive episodes of pneumonia, each accompanied by elevated C-reactive protein (CRP) levels, and resulting in hospitalisation. During the third episode, almost one year after initial presentation of chest pain, detection of liver and adrenal gland metastases indicated disease progression. Therefore, second line treatment with pemetrexed was initiated. After eight treatments, restaging computed tomography showed stable disease, but was indicative of abscess formation around the right hip (). Distinctly elevated CRP levels were also present. Following drainage, systemic treatment with antibiotics was initiated, yet microbiological examination of the fluid revealed sterile cultures. Six weeks later, the patient developed impaired vision, eventually leading to magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the brain. Different sequences were performed: T1-weighted with and without iv contrast, T2-weighted, fluid attenuated inversion recovery