A 30-year-old Caucasian female patient was admitted to our Hospital in February 2009, due to prominent, localized loose and sagging skin of abdomen, with reduced elasticity and resilience which gave her prematurely aged appearance induced by prior cesarean section 6 years ago (Figures and ). One month after cesarean section due to prolonged labor, she noticed the development of loose, wrinkled skin of abdomen without any sign of inflammation. The patient was treated by her gynaecologist with topical emollients, but with no result. At that time, patient refused reconstructive surgery of the redundant abdominal skin and had second cesarean section 3 years ago due to prolonged labor.
On admission to our Hospital her height was 175 centimeters and weight was 60 kilograms, body mass index was normal (19,6). Lax, redundant folds in the lower part of the abdominal wall were not associated with papules or plaques and were on non-sun-exposed areas.The affected area has normal pigmentation and no associated scaling. There was a lack of cutaneous induration or sclerosis. Skin lesions were asymptomatic and lack clinical sings of inflammation. Loss of recoil due to impaired function of the elastic fiber network has led to pendulous skin which was most notable in abdomen. These findings were limited to the skin of abdomen and were primarily of major cosmetic concern to patient. Extracutaneous findings were absent. She had had no previous illnesses and without any subjective difficulties (e.g., pain, fever, weight loss). There was no family history of this disorder and skin lesions were not present at birth and developed during 2nd decade of life. There was no mucosal involvement. She was not taking any medication. History of chronic sun exposure was negative. She was non-smoker.
CL has been diagnosed based on the clinical picture and pathohistological appearance. On admission excisional biopsy of lax skin has been performed. Routine hematoxylin-eosin staining has revealed normal collagen fibers, without any