An 82-year-old male was admitted to our hospital because of cough with blood-streaked phlegm. These symptoms had been sustained for two weeks. He had smoked 30 cigarettes per day for the past 60 years. The patient did not experience dyspnea, fever, chest pain, body weight loss, or poor appetite. His medical history and family history were unremarkable. Physical examination on admission revealed a clear breathing sound; moreover, abnormalities in neck size as well as supraclavicular lymph nodes were not detected. The results of the laboratory tests were within the normal range except for a mild normocytic anemia.
On performing routine chest radiography, a mass lesion on the right upper lobe was discovered (). Contrast-enhanced CT revealed a lobulated soft-tissue mass that measured 3.7 cm in the largest dimension on the axial plane in the medial region of the right upper lobe (RUL). In addition, the image showed encasement of the RUL bronchus, mediastinal invasion, and enlarged lymph nodes in the pretracheal retrocaval space, subcarinal space, and the right hilar region (). Bronchoscopic examination revealed extensive submucosal and lymphangitic infiltration with partial obstruction of the right upper lobe orifice and a whitish keratinized tumor, which bled easily upon touch, and partially occluded the right anterior segment of the lower lobe bronchial lumen (RB7, right anterior segment of the lower lobe bronchial lumen) (, ).
Pathologic examination of the pulmonary specimen of the RUL bronchus revealed small cell lung cancer (SCLC), which was positive for chromogranin-A and negative for CD45. The pulmonary specimen of the bronchus of RB7 showed moderately to poorly differentiated non-small cell lung carcinoma (NSCLC). In addition, the morphological features and immunohistochemical results of the tumor cells from the two distinct regions of the right lung were different (). These results were not consistent with the characteristics reported for metastatic cancer of pulmonary origin. However, both pathologic specimens