A 65-year-old man was admitted to hospital with acute abdominal pain and hypovolemic shock. He was a cigarette smoker for more than 20 years, had arterial hypertension and a medical history of cholecystectomy and appendectomy. Abdominal CT imaging showed a huge retroperitoneal hematoma of 7 × 23 × 25 cm (Fig. ) and an aneurysm of the IMA about 2 cm from its origin resulting in concurrent occlusion of superior mesenteric and celiac arteries (Fig. ). The IMA also was very wound from its origin. The patient underwent midline laparotomy with a transperitoneal approach to the IMA by a multidisciplinary team of vascular and colorectal surgeons. Severe bowel adherences were observed which possibly helped to limit the massive hemorrhage limited to the retroperitoneum. The aneurysm was completely excised. The normal proximal and distal ends of the IMA were then mobilized. The artery was finally reconnected in an end-to-end manner to re-establish blood flow. Neither a graft nor a shunt was used, with only a short period of ischemia during the running suture. Heparin was rinsed only locally, due to the massive hemorrhage and the need for transfusion. Macroscopic examination of the aneurysm sac demonstrated typical appearances of atherosclerotic aneurismal tissue. There was no history of trauma or any clinical sign of sepsis that led us to suppose that another cause might be responsible for this lesion. The postoperative course was uneventful, and no symptoms of intestinal ischemia were noted.
Worldwide, there have been only eleven reports of IMA aneurysms associated with tight stenosis of the SMA and celiac trunk [,]. Other publications have presented cases with abdominal angina and weight loss [] or even rupture []. Previous authors have conjectured that this situation may arise because of a ''jet disorder'' phenomenon. Concurrent occlusion of the superior mesenteric and celiac arteries leads to greatly increased and possibly turbulent blood flow in the IMA []. This produces localized areas with high arterial pressure that in an