A 68-year-old female with primary biliary cirrhosis received a liver transplantation from a deceased heart-beating donor for end-stage liver disease with a MELD of 24. Preoperative study showed no evidence of hepatic artery abnormalities. The donor was a 75-year-old female that was pronounced brain-dead after a stroke. The donor's only comorbidity was significant history of cigarette use. During the donor surgery the celiac artery did not have any atherosclerotic disease and the hepatic arterial anatomy was normal. Of note, the iliac arteries were severely diseased with hard circumferential plaque.
Liver transplantation was performed by using the Piggy-back technique with restoration of vena caval and portal vein blood flow before the arterial reconstruction. It was then discovered that the native hepatic artery was dissected (Figures and ). In this situation we routinely use a cadaveric iliac jump graft to the infrarenal aorta to reconstructe the hepatic artery; however, the donor's vessels were unusable []. The decision was made to anastomose the donor celiac artery with aortic carrel patch directly to the supraceliac aorta (Figures and ).
The length of the donor celiac artery was adequate without tension. The gastrohepatic ligament had already been ligated during the hepatectomy and the stomach was retracted laterally. The diaphragmatic cura were divided in a muscle splitting fashion in an attempt to preserve them starting just below the insertion of the aorta through the diaphragm. The supraceliac aorta was exposed inferiorly for approximately 3-4 cm which allowed cross-clamping with two straight vascular clamps above the celiac artery origin. We did not dissect out the aorta circumferentially to avoid the posterior lumbar arteries in that area of the aorta. An arteriotomy was made and enlarged with two 4.8 mm aortic punches. The anastomosis was created with 5–0 prolene in running fashion. Cross-clamp was 17 minutes.
Postoperatively, the patient's creatinine rose to 1.6 mg/dL on POD1 and returned