A 69-year-old male patient came with complaints of cough and hemoptysis from last one year. The symptoms were not relieved by conservative medications. There was no contact history with any case of pulmonary tuberculosis in the family or neighbourhood. Patient gave no history of any chronic illness, surgery or hospital admission in the past. The patient was a chronic smoker for the past 30 years. The patient was given a trial of anti tubercular treatment for six months but with no relief. Other than crepitations in right inframammary area, rest of the physical examination and routine laboratory work up was inconclusive. Repeated sputa examination for AFB were negative.
Chest X-ray revealed unfolding of aorta, hazy right parahilar and para cardiac area []. USG whole abdomen and the spirometry were normal. CT chest revealed an ill defined soft tissue opacity in the right hilar region encasing bronchus intermedius and causing right middle lobe collapse and consolidation of superior segment of right lower lobe with mediastinal extension with mediastinal lymphadenopathy and peribronchovascular interstitial thickening raising a suspicion of Bronchogenic carcinoma and Pulmonary tuberculosis []. The case was discussed with the radiologist who advised against bronchial biopsy, keeping in mind the vascular nature of the tumor and the possibility of massive bleed during the bronchial biopsy. Routine bronchoscopy was done to confirm the findings and they revealed that vocal cords, glottis, trachea, carina and left bronchial tree were normal. Right upper lobe was showing pigmented and edematous mucosa. Bronchus Intermedius was so much edematous and swollen which made the openings of right middle lobe and right lower lobe bronchii narrow enough from where the bronchoscope could not be negotiated. It was decided to do bronchial artery embolization to stop the hemoptysis. Bronchial artery embolization was done through the right femoral artery. The procedure involved selective bronchial artery angiography and bronchial artery localization using the contrast omnipaque. Bronchial artery angiography revealed right lung bronchial angiogram showing two