A 49-year-old male smoker with a history of squamous cell carcinoma was found to have a 4 cm left hilar mass on CT scan. An EBUS FNA performed of the mass demonstrated abundant mucinous material with clusters of pleomorphic cells []. The nuclei were enlarged and hyperchromatic, with coarse chromatin and dense basophilic cytoplasm. The background showed abundant mucinous material with entrapped inflammatory cells and bronchial cells []. The ROSE was malignant, favoring a nonsmall cell carcinoma; however, it was uncertain if the mucin was associated with the neoplastic cells or simply a contaminant. The immunohistochemical stains performed on sections of the cell block revealed that the tumor cells were positive for p63, CK5/6, and negative for TTF1. In addition, the tumor was similar in morphology to the patient’s prior lung biopsy with a diagnosis of squamous cell carcinoma. The final diagnosis was metastatic squamous cell carcinoma with the mucin attributed to bronchial contamination.
This case illustrates the discrepancy or mismatch that may exist between background material and the cells of interest in EBUS FNA. For example, a mucinous background usually leads us to infer that there is a mucin-producing adenocarcinoma []; however, similar to pancreatic EUS-guided FNAs, mucin can be a contaminant from the needle path and is not necessarily produced by the tumor cells present. This is an important aspect of EBUS FNA to be aware of, particularly because cytopathologists often rely on the background material to aid in making a diagnosis and for subtyping tumors.
When looking at an EBUS FNA with a mucinous background, there are two cytomorphologic clues that can help to determine if the mucin is truly indicative of a mucin-producing adenocarcinoma. The first clue is the presence of columnar cells, or cells with voluminous mucinous cytoplasm or targetoid vacuoles with a central mucin droplet. A second clue is the presence of “dirty” mucin with entrapped inflammatory cells and debris, which usually signifies mucin contamination [