A 60-year-old female smoker with a remote history of renal cell carcinoma (RCC) presented with an enlarged right paratracheal lymph node. The clinical differential was reactive lymphoid hyperplasia, granulomatous inflammation, or metastatic carcinoma from the lung or kidney. The DQ-stained smears from the EBUS FNA showed irregular clusters of cells with abundant cytoplasm containing some vacuolization and round-to-oval nuclei with occasional nucleoli []. In addition, some clusters appeared to be associated with transversing small blood vessels. Upon closer examination, a few cells with nuclear pleomorphism were noted, including cells with large prominent nucleoli and binucleation [ inset]. The ROSE diagnosis was atypical and the diagnosis was deferred due to the atypical epithelioid cells present, which were felt to either represent nonnecrotizing granulomas or metastatic tumor. Additional material was submitted for cell block preparation. The immunohistochemical stains confirmed that the cells were positive for cytokeratin, vimentin, CD10, and EMA. The cells stained negative for CD68. Thus, the final cytologic diagnosis was metastatic RCC, which was confirmed on follow-up surgical excision of the lymph node.
This case illustrates the diagnostic difficulty, particularly at the time of ROSE, in differentiating cytologically bland neoplasms from the reactive atypia of epithelioid histiocytes in granulomatous inflammation, as illustrated in a case of sarcoidosis []. This diagnostic difficulty was highlighted in a published study looking at the intraoperative cytologic interpretation in 156 cases of granulomatous inflammation, in which 9 cases (6%) showed a clinically significant discrepancy where a neoplasm was misdiagnosed as a granuloma or vice versa. []
These discrepancies occur due to the variable features of granulomas and the cytologic atypia seen in epithelioid histiocytes, which can include prominent nucleoli and nuclear enlargement []. Also, the necrotic background appreciated in necrotizing granulomas can lead one to make a false positive interpretation of a neoplastic process. The cytomorphology of epithelioid histiocytes within granulomatous inflammation can also resemble sinus histiocytosis or other histiocytic processes in