A 30-year-old woman, 70 kg, 160 cm, gravid 2, para 1, was followed because of polyhydramniosis diagnosed at 24 weeks’ gestation. During a routine ultrasonographic examination at 35 weeks’ gestation, it was noticed that the fetus had a tumoral mass on the anterior neck, which was protruding outwards under the jaw bone, pushing the floor of mouth upward, oblit- erating the trachea and esophagus and extending to the sternal notch (). The mass had cystic and calcified components and with a size of was 10 × 6 ×5 cm. The blood supply of the mass was poor. All of the findings were confirmed with CT scan too (). The woman and her husband had no significant medical history.
The case was diagnosed with cervical teratoma and evaluated with a team including anaesthesiologists, gynecologists, neonatal intensive care specialists and pediatric surgeons because of possibility of respiratory distress due to an airway obstruction at postnatal period. It was decided that the infant would be intubated immediately after the delivery which would be a cesarean section under elective conditions and the cervical mass would be excised if necessary. After information and explanation about the anaesthetic procedure, without anaesthetic background, physical status ASA I, was submitted to cesarean section under general anaesthesia with mechanically controlled ventilation for exutero intrapartum treatment (EXIT).
Patient was placed in the supine position and uterus was displaced to the left with the aid of Crawford's wedge. Monitoring consisted of cardio- scope at DII lead, noninvasive blood pressure, pulse oximetry, capnography and neuromuscular block evaluation by acceleromyography. Patient was premedicated with intravenous metoclopramide (10 mg) and ranitidine (50 mg), 30 minutes before anaesthesia. Upper limb vein was catheterized in the operating room at room temperature with disposable 14G catheter for volume replacement and drug administration. General anaes- thesia was induced in rapid sequence, oxygenation with 100 % oxygen under mask, intravenous fentanyl (250 µg),