A 16-year-old female patient presented to the radiotherapy department in July 2008 with complaint of unrelenting hoarseness of voice for the last 1 year. She developed it gradually over a period of time. Initial treatment was directed to common cold but was of no help. There was no associated sore throat, otalgia, localized pain or tenderness over thyroid cartilage, dysphagia or features of airway obstruction. The patient is a nonsmoker and is nonalcoholic and without any history of past or present marijuana smoking. There was no history of prior neck irradiation. An incidence of cancer in the family could not be elicited from a detailed history. An indirect laryngoscopy was performed, which showed both vocal cords to be mobile. There was no visible growth over any of the vocal cords. Contrast-enhanced CT scan of the neck was performed, and it showed a small irregular lesion over the left vocal cord at the junction of anterior one third and posterior two thirds []. Thickening of left true vocal cord with loss of paraglottic fat is seen, suggestive of a neoplastic lesion. The normal paraglottic fat on the right side is seen as black area just deep to the thyroid cartilage (seen as white). The airway is seen as black oval structure. There is no visible neck node. Fiber-optic laryngoscopy confirmed the CT scan finding, which also showed irregular lesions along the medial margin of the left vocal cord []. Both CT scan and fiber-optic laryngoscopy showed an otherwise normal picture. Microlaryngoscopic removal of the mass was performed. Histopathological examination under low-power and high-power fields showed severe dysplasia and full-thickness replacement of epithelium with dysplastic cells and diagnosed it as carcinoma in situ [Figures and ]. However, the risk of a micro-invasive carcinoma could not be ruled out. A second biopsy was advised to obtain deeper tissue, but it was refused by the patient. So from the available documents, we considered it carcinoma in situ of the vocal cord