A 33-year-old African American woman presented to the emergency medical services of our hospital complaining of a chest pain that began suddenly that morning while she was resting in bed. She described the chest pain as sharp and non-radiating in the peristernal area. Deep breaths and movement exacerbated her chest pain. Nitroglycerin given sublingually partially relieved the pain. On initial presentation she also complained of right foot pain progressively worsening over the past five days. She also admitted to bilateral hand pain worsening over the past three days. The right foot pain prompted an emergency room visit one week prior to this admission for which she was treated with naproxen [Naprosyn] and propoxyphene and acetaminophen [Darvocet], which gave her minimal relief of the pain in her right foot.
Her medical history is significant only for normal childhood illnesses. Her surgical history only includes a cesarean section. Socially she admitted to drinking two bottles of beer on a daily basis but denied tobacco or drug use. Her father died at the age of 46 secondary to a myocardial infarction, and her mother is alive with hypercholesterolemia, diabetes, hypertension and arthritis. She also has a brother with diabetes. She denies food, drug or environmental allergies. Her home medication includes naproxen and propoxyphene and acetaminophen, which were prescribed to her one week prior to this admission.
On initial physical examination she was noted as having violaceous purpuric patches and macules that were non-palpable, non-blanchable lesions distributed bilaterally over her hands and right foot. These lesions were consistent with vasculitis or arterial insufficiency. Her toes and midfoot were completely involved in a stocking pattern with sparing at the heel. Her ankle to middle leg exhibited coalescent ecchymoses and purpura in an incompletely circumscribed distribution around the limb. The upper margins demonstrated scattered petechiae extending to just below her knee. Her popliteal, posterior tibial and dorsalis pedis pulses were palpable