A 45-year-old man presented with a 6-month history of progressive dyspnea with productive cough and wheezing. The patient had a history of smoking (1 pack per day for 20 years), hypertension and asthma, which was under regular medical control. He also had a history of tongue cancer (squamous cell carcinoma, pT2N0M0, stage II) for which he underwent wide excision of the right side of the tongue and modified neck lymph node dissection five years prior to this presentation. Chest plain film showed a protruding mass shadow in the left hilar region. Costodiaphragmatic angles were clear. There was increased density over left lung field with elevation of the left side of the diaphragm. These features were indicative of a hilar mass obstructing the bronchus with collapse of the upper left lobe of the lung (Fig. ). Contrast enhanced computed tomography (CT) showed a hilar mass measuring approximately 35 mm × 28 mm × 15 mm and a collapsed left upper lobe of the lung. There was weak enhancement in the arterial phase. The endobronchial part of the tumor had clear margins along the bronchus of the upper left lobe of the lung. The distal part of the tumor had indistinct margins along the lung parenchyma. The distal bronchus was dilated and filled with secretions. There was no mediastinal lymphadenopathy (Fig. ). Bronchoscopy revealed a whitish tumor obstructing the left upper bronchus (Fig. ). Biopsy specimens of the tumor taken during the bronchoscopic examination showed evidence of smooth muscle cell proliferation with focal abnormal mitosis. A smooth muscle cell tumor of malignant potential was considered. Positron emission tomography (PET) showed increased fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) uptake in the lesion (Fig. ).
The tumor involved the upper left lobe of the lung and obstructed the bronchus. The patient underwent a thoracoscopic lobectomy under general anesthesia with double lumen endotracheal tube placement. The vessels of the left upper lobe were divided and ligated using an endoscopic autostapling device. The bronchus of the