A 56-year-old woman presented at our hospital with an episode of acute urinary retention. She also complained of urinary frequency and urgency for the past 4 months. A physical examination did not reveal any particular findings, including pelvic organ prolapse. The results of a laboratory evaluation were within the normal limits. The urinary cytology was class II. In our cytology system, a scale of 1 - 5 was used. An ultrasonography detected a round mass in the bladder and no signs of hydronephrosis. A cystoscopy revealed a smooth surface and an intact mucosa tumor at the bladder neck. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) demonstrated a homogenous mass measuring 2.7 cm in diameter occupying the space between the bladder neck and the anterior vaginal wall. The tumor was homogenously enhanced after the injection of gadolinium (Figure. ).
From these finding, we suspected a leiomyoma of the bladder. To confirm this diagnosis, we performed a transvaginal needle biopsy under ultrasonic guidance; however, the histological studies were unable to provide a diagnosis because of inadequate tissue collection during the biopsy.
The patient was treated with an anti-cholinergic agent and an alpha-blocker for 2 months, but her LUTS symptoms did not resolve. Therefore, we performed a TUR to resolve her symptoms and to confirm the pathological diagnosis. The TUR was successfully completed, and the patient's post-operative recovery was uneventful. Her LUTS were resolved a week after the operation.
The pathological findings revealed the proliferation of spindle-shaped cells with eosinophilic cytoplasm and muscular and fibrous tissue with fibrous stroma. The nuclei of the cells were cigar-shaped and centrally located. No evidence of mitotic figures, coagulative T-cell necrosis or atypia was seen. Immunohistochemistry showed a positive expression for smooth muscle actin and a negative expression for Ki-67. These findings were consistent with a diagnosis of benign leiomyoma (Figure. ). The final diagnosis was leiomyoma of the bladder without a malignant component.
We performed pre and post-operative (after