At the beginning of 2000, a 52-year-old Caucasian man who worked as a dental surgeon and had never smoked, was referred to the our Occupational Health Unit, owing to shortness of breath during exercise, cough and retrosternal pain, which had become progressively evident in the months prior to admission. His medical history was unremarkable. Physical examination, pulmonary function tests and blood tests were within normal ranges. Chest X-ray showed bilateral hilar enlargement and suggested hilar lymphadenopathy secondary to sarcoidosis as a possible diagnosis. This possibility was supported by chest computed tomography (CT) scan, which revealed diffuse hilar and mediastinal lymphadenopathy with maximal lymph node diameter of 3 cm. Total body scintigraphy with gallium 67 confirmed the hilar and mediastinal lymphadenopathy. Bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) showed an increase in total cell count and an elevated CD4/CD8 ratio compatible with sarcoidosis, and absence of neoplastic cells or infectious agents. Finally, cytologic examination of the aspirated bronchial material evidenced a non-caseating granuloma and first stage sarcoidosis was diagnosed. After lung examination, it was decided not to start any treatment and to evaluate the progression of the disease. Therefore, our patient was referred for follow-up.
Given the epidemiologic evidence on the role of occupational exposure in the etiology of sarcoidosis, a sample of the powder used by our patient in his work as a dental surgeon for at least 20 years in dental hygiene procedures was analyzed. Analysis was performed by electronic microscopy in the Laboratory of Biomaterial of the Department of Neurosciences, University of Modena and Reggio Emilia and identified the presence of silicates among components.
During the following three years, the clinical picture and chest CTs remained unchanged. Blood tests showed an increase of serum angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) and GPT, whereas calcium remained within normal values. Hepatic echography was also normal. In 2003, our patient's dyspnea was seriously aggravated with episodes also occurring at rest; the chest CT performed in March 2003 revealed a bilateral