A well-built 29-year-old Caucasian man attended the emergency department in the late evening unable to close his mouth immediately after yawning. Although he had no medical problems, he did admit to having long-standing 'clicking' of his left TMJ. He was not on any regular medication, was a non-smoker and drank alcohol socially. His occupation was as an electrician.
On examination his mouth was open and there was significant drooling. No oral or facial lacerations were present. Bilaterally, there was a depression in the his pre-auricular area associated with severe tenderness. Radiographs were taken and illustrated bilateral anterior dislocations of the patient's TMJs. A closed reduction was attempted in the emergency department using 5 mg midazolam and 5 mg diazepam; however, after two attempts reduction could not be achieved. At this point, the maxillofacial team in the hospital were contacted. He was subsequently transferred later that evening to a regional oral and maxillofacial surgical unit.
Upon further questioning, he admitted that during the previous attempts at joint reduction he had been in considerable pain and was unable to relax his muscles of mastication. With this in mind, a further reduction was attempted on a ward by a doctor specialising in oral and maxillofacial surgery. However, he was unable to relax his muscles sufficiently to facilitate reduction because of his ongoing anxiety and apprehension over the procedure. He also refused both local and regional anesthetic techniques due to the previous unsuccessful attempts and was insistent upon the use of general anesthesia. Given that this would occur only a few hours later in the morning, it was deemed a suitable option for him.
The patient was promptly taken to theatre in the morning and with the aid of a muscle relaxant, both of his TMJs were reduced easily by applying force in an inferior direction to the mandibular rami. To maintain position, a Philadelphia collar was applied for 24 hours and he was