A 21-year-old Caucasian man was transferred to the Clinic for an evaluation of a complex perirectal abscess. The patient had experienced rectal pain with defecation for a month prior to presentation, and was initially treated conservatively for presumed hemorrhoidal disease. His symptoms progressed so that passing flatus alone caused him significant discomfort. He then developed worsening constipation. A rectal examination was notable and revealed marked tenderness and induration. Imaging and a proctoscopic examination under anesthesia were performed at an outside hospital before admission to our clinic, and a complex perirectal fluid was collected but could not be adequately drained. The patient then developed increasing difficulty urinating and a four-day history of obstipation, prompting transfer.
The patient's past medical history was notable for the occurrence of a papillary thyroid carcinoma with cervical lymph node metastases that was diagnosed one year before and treated with a total thyroidectomy and post-operative radioiodine therapy. He had a recent lymph node recurrence prompting a modified radical neck dissection at an outside hospital one week before transfer to our clinic. He had no history of prior abdominal or pelvic surgeries. The only medication he was taking was levothyroxine. He was single, and denied tobacco, alcohol, or drug use. He also denied any rectal instrumentation or anal intercourse. His family history was notable for a paternal uncle with Crohn's disease, and a paternal grandmother with a history of resected thyroid cancer. A review of the patient's systems was positive for a 10 kg weight loss in the past month, anorexia, a decrease in stool caliber, fatigue, and painful urination, in addition to the presenting complaints. He denied having a fever, but did complain of night sweats.
A physical examination revealed a tall, thin man in no acute distress. His maximum body temperature was 37°C, with a blood pressure of 100/60 mmHg and a heart rate of 88 beats per minute, with normal respiration and oxygen saturation. His abdomen