A 68-year-old Caucasian man with severe chronic thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension and progressive decline to New York Heart Association (NYHA) functional class IV was admitted to our intensive care unit (ICU) because of respiratory failure and need for mechanical ventilation. His medical history included repeated episodes of deep vein thrombosis and two episodes of pulmonary embolism despite adequate anticoagulant therapy. Upon completion of the pulmonary hypertension investigation, his pulmonary thromboembolic disease was considered non-operable and was treated with bosentan and inhaled iloprost. Following the initiation of mechanical ventilation he was switched to intravenous iloprost and three months later our patient demonstrated a significant hemodynamic improvement, allowing him to undergo PEA. Details on his hemodynamic status and management are described elsewhere [].
During his hospitalization, our patient had two episodes of ICU-acquired microbial and fungal infections including a catheter related candidaemia due to Candida albicans and Staphylococcus epidermidis (isolated from the catheter tip of a left internal jugular central venous catheter, treated with caspofungin for 15 days and linezolid 600 mg twice a day for 14 days), and an episode of ventilator-associated pneumonia (VAP) due to Acinetobacter baumannii treated according to the detected antimicrobial susceptibilities with imipenem (1 g every six hours) and colistin (3 × 106U every eight hours).
Immediately prior to PEA, our patient was given 1 g of vancomycin as surgical prophylaxis with the induction of anesthesia. During the first post-operative week he was febrile without an apparent site of infection and received antibiotic treatment according to the surveillance cultures. On the eighth post-operative day an exudate drained automatically from the surgical wound; cultures grown in Sabouraud dextrose agar revealed a fast-growing isolate with cottony texture identified as Aspergillus spp. Microscopically, a potassium hydroxide mount confirmed the presence of septate and hyaline, and dichotomously branched hyphae. Conidiophores were uncolored producing spherical to ellipsoidal accessory conidia, covering the entire surface of the biser