A 48 year old male patient presented to the emergency department with a one hour history of epigastric pain, vomiting and profuse sweating. The patient's medical history was significant for long standing hypertension and chronic heavy cigarette smoking as well as recurrent attacks of chest pains related mainly to exertion and relieved by rest.
Clinical examination revealed an obese restless patient with a blood pressure of 90/60 bilaterally and a regular pulse at 110 beats per minute. The jugular veins were congested with a venous pressure of 15 mmHg above the sternal angle and positive Kussmaul's sign. Cardiac examination revealed normal first and second heart sounds and an S3 gallop but no murmurs or pericardial rub. Chest examination revealed bilaterally equal air entry with normal vesicular breathing and no rhonchi or crepitations.
Electrocardiogram was performed in the emergency room and revealed Q waves and ST segment elevation in the inferior leads as well as tall R wave and ST segment depression in lead V2 as shown in figure . Right chest leads showed ST segment elevation in lead V3R and V4R as shown in figure . The clinical picture together with electrocardiographic finding suggested a diagnosis of acute transmural infero-posterior associated with right ventricular myocardial infarction.
Immediately after admission to the emergency room, the patient's conscious level ran a downhill course and he went into deep coma with a GCS of 3/15 and pinpoint pupils. A computed tomography of the brain was performed and revealed no abnormalities. This deterioration was presumed to be due to acute ischemic stroke not yet evident in the initial CT scan. Taking into consideration this sudden worsening of his conscious level and a calculated NIHSS score (National Institute of Health Stroke Scale) of >25 indicating a massive cerebral infarction, it was decided not to administer thrombolytic therapy. We also decided not to undergo primary percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty because of the bad prognosis of the patient. The patient was treated conservatively with antiplatelets, anticoagulant therapy and inotropic support for cardiogenic shock