An 18-year-old male presented with a history of painful dorsal induration on the proximal third of the penis for the previous week. The pain was throbbing and aching. There was no itching, discharge, hematuria, fever, dysuria, sexual dysfunction, or increased pain with an erection. He gave a history of recent masturbation without any trauma of any kind to the penis. He had not experienced this condition before and denied ever being infected with a sexually transmitted disease. He was taking no medications at the time of presentation. His family history yielded no helpful information. The patient reported that he abused neither alcohol nor smoke or took any other drugs.
A physical examination revealed a healthy young man in no apparent distress. A thin ropy cord was palpated superficially on his dorsal proximal penis. This cord included a dilated portion of approximately 0.6 cm in diameter. This indurated cord could be followed superiorly and extended into his pubic hair region by 2–3 cm. This cord was tender when palpated and the overlying skin was completely intact with no erythemia. An examination revealed no signs of lymphadenopathy in the groin region with no hernia.
The diagnosis indicated superficial thrombophlebitis of the dorsal vein of the penis. A doppler ultrasound revealed a dorsal induration corresponding to segmental thrombosis of the superficial dorsal vein of the penis - the rest of the trajectory remained permeable.
[] Ultrasound of the superficial vein of the penis demonstrating thrombosis
Supportive care was initiated, including a prescription for 50 mg of diclofenace twice daily, a 325 mg entericoated tablet of aspirin daily for anticoagulation, 200 mg of ofloxacin twice daily for prophylaxis, and heparin cream for local application for a period of 4 weeks as a result of which the pain subsided and induration disappeared. The patient was reassured of the benign nature of his condition and was instructed to refrain from any sexual experiences for this period.