O.T, a 20-year old Nigerian female student was seen in July 2007 with history of recurrent breathlessness which had started about 10 years earlier. Her symptoms worsened in the previous three weeks when she became breathless at rest, had paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnoea, bilateral leg swelling and cough productive of whitish, and blood-stained sputum. Past history was significant for recurrent sore throat in childhood and skin rashes. She was not previously diagnosed hypertensive or asthmatic. She was the second child in a monogamous family; both parents are in a very low income group. Her genotype was AS and she was not smoking cigarettes or consuming alcohol. There was no family history of the disease in any of her siblings.
Examination revealed that the woman looked pale, was chronically ill, and had a tinge of jaundice with severe bilateral pitting pedal oedema. A cardiovascular system examination revealed a pulse rate of 120 per minute, irregular and small volume, blood pressure of 90/60mmHg, elevated jugular venous pressure, displaced apex beat which was located at 7th intercostal space anterior axillary line and a fourth, first and second heart sounds. The respiratory rate was 36 cycles per minute and bilateral crepitations. Other examination findings were a tender, pulsatile hepatomegaly of 6 cm below the right coastal margin.
An echocardiography showed densely thickened mitral valves with severe commissural fusion leading to doming of the mitral valve in diastole, markedly dilated left atrium with an intramural clot attached to the posterior left atrial wall, reduced left ventricular ejection fraction, markedly dilated right atrium and right ventricle. Colour flow showed severe tricuspid regurgitation. The calculated mitral valve area is 0.67cm square. Complete blood count showed leucocytosis with a white cell count of 19,700/cubic centimetres and marked neutrophilia. The chest X-ray revealed cardiomegaly with a double cardiac shadow in keeping with the dilated left and right atrium (
).
She was placed on diuretics