The patient was a 73-year-old Chinese woman with osteoarthritis in both knees. In the recent half year, she had been suffering from intractable right knee pain with failed conservative treatment and prepared for right side TKA. She had a 27-year history of hypertension and her blood pressure was controlled well by medication. She had no other medical history, including smoking history. Her BMI was 24. The physical examination showed a limited range of motion (ROM) of 0°–120° without varus or valgus deformity. Preoperative X-ray showed narrow medial knee joint space and osteophyte formation without vascular calcification (Fig. ). The peripheral pulses and capillary refill were normal, although the preoperative Doppler ultrasound showed arteriosclerosis with plaque formation in the arteries in both legs.
The right side TKA with a posterior stabilized design (LPS, NexGen, Zimmer, Warsaw, USA) was performed under general anesthesia. A tourniquet was applied for 70 min at a pressure of 250 mmHg. The whole surgery was completed without any complications and there was normal intraoperative bleeding at the surgical site. The postoperative X-ray showed successful implantation for the right knee (Fig. ).
However, immediately after the surgery, routine peripheral pulse check in the operating room found absent dorsalis pedis artery pulse in the right foot. The patient was closely monitored in the recovery room. After approximately 2 h, there was no improvement in peripheral pulses, capillary refill, and oxygen saturation. In consideration of the high possibility of arterial occlusion, the vascular consultant recommended using 1000 U heparin for anticoagulation and immediate evaluation by arteriography for diagnosis. An emergency arteriography under local anesthesia showed that there was a short segmental occlusion of the popliteal artery (Fig. ). Then the angioplasty was performed with a balloon with a diameter of 5 mm for 3 min. Follow-up imaging showed excellent blood flow although vascular stenosis was still observed in popliteal artery (Fig. ). There was a return of palpable pulses and a