A 48-year-old female patient was diagnosed with ileocolonic CD after experiencing months of abdominal discomfort, loose stools and bloating. Her initial colonoscopy demonstrated an inflamed intestinal mucosa with a cobblestone appearance and longitudinal ulcerations throughout the colon extending into the terminal ileum with rectal sparing. Based on these findings she was commenced on oral prednisolone. Her symptoms improved initially however upon weaning the prednisolone, she developed recurrence of symptoms. She was subsequently commenced on 6-mercaptopurine 25 mg daily and allopurinol 100 mg daily. Despite therapeutic thiopurine metabolites and 3 months of therapy, she continued to have abdominal pain and loose stools, opening her bowels 5 to 6 times a day, there was no rectal bleeding.
There was no family history of IBD, no prior use of NSAID, oral contraceptive pill or illicit drugs and no recent travel overseas. She was a current smoker with no other risk factors for cardiovascular disease and had a normal BMI. She did not display any extraintestinal manifestations of CD on history or physical examination.
She underwent a second colonoscopy which showed mild patchy colitis throughout the colon with rectal sparing (). Biopsy revealed patchy mild active chronic colitis. There were rare small clusters of histiocytes without well-formed granulomata ().
Following this, she had an MRI of the small bowel to assess the extent of disease. This demonstrated a 25 cm segment of distal and terminal ileum with bowel wall thickening and enhancement. There was no proximal dilatation. A decision was made to commence adalimumab.
Two weeks later and just prior to the commencement of anti-TNF therapy, she presented to the local emergency department with severe abdominal pain, vomiting, and watery diarrhea. On examination, she was hemodynamically stable, afebrile and her abdomen was soft with a mildly tender epigastrium but no signs of peritonism. Blood tests revealed anemia with a hemoglobin 113 g/L,