A 57-year-old man was informed regarding a possible diagnosis of gastric cancer at a local clinic on November 15, 2016, based on the results of endoscopic examination previously performed following his complaints of weight loss, abdominal pain, and indigestion. On the same day, the patient visited the department of gastroenterology at a university hospital for endoscopy including biopsy. The tests revealed advanced gastric cancer in the distal antrum (). Abdominal computed tomography (CT) scans subsequently confirmed the presence of cancer and metastasis. The results showed invasion of the entire wall of the antrum with regional lymph node metastasis (). He was diagnosed with stage IIIB gastric cancer (T4N2M0). On December 6, 2016, the patient underwent subtotal gastrectomy with Billroth I anastomosis and cholecystectomy, and was started on chemotherapy. Despite the treatment, he died of gastric cancer on January 9, 2018. Apart from having received treatment for chronic hepatitis B, the patient had never been diagnosed with any disease of the GI tract prior to the gastric cancer diagnosis. During the endoscopy performed on November 15, 2016, he was not tested for H. pylori infection; in addition, he never underwent any tests for H. pylori infection. We were thus unable to determine the presence of H. pylori infection. He had a 1–10 pack-years history of smoking, did not drink, and had no particular relevant family medical history. At the time of his job history survey, the patient was working as a day laborer; his official job history could not therefore be established. We accordingly reviewed his employment insurance records, the National Tax Service (NTS) reports, and his own statements. Based on the combined information, we summarized that the patient had worked as an oxygen cutter at shipbreaking workplaces from 1978 to the 1990s (for approximately 17 years). Furthermore, during the 1990s and 2010s (until 2016), he worked for 7 years at building demolition workplaces as a member