The patient is a 61-year-old man with a heavy smoking and alcohol history, who presented to a head and neck surgeon for the evaluation of a left neck mass that had been present for 18 months with interval increase in size. The mass was hard, non-tender, with fine needle aspiration demonstrating a cT2N0 atypical squamous lesion of the submandibular gland. The patient underwent radical excision with modified radical neck dissection and partial parotidectomy. The resulting pathology was consistent with moderately to poorly differentiated SCC with focal perineural invasion (pT3N2bM0). The patient underwent post-operative chemoradiation but presented within 1 year with local regional recurrence. He again underwent chemoradiation with radical excision of facial cancer with radical parotidectomy, left radical neck dissection and facial reconstruction ( and ).
The patient’s post-operative course was complicated by dysphagia requiring gastrostomy tube placement. Surveillance imaging of the chest showed extensive mediastinal, hilar and supraclavicular lymphadenopathy with new pulmonary nodules and a large mediastinal mass encasing the trachea and ascending aorta consistent with distant metastatic disease. Cardiothoracic surgery was consulted and deemed the mass unresectable. On subsequent follow up, the patient endorsed a 2-year history of melena and was referred to gastroenterology for colonoscopy. However, prior to the scheduled colonoscopy, the patient was found to have abdominal distention with imaging confirming colonic pneumatosis and a large mass in the ascending colon. The patient’s clinical condition deteriorated despite non-operative management. He underwent exploratory laparotomy with right hemicolectomy, transverse colectomy and end ileostomy. Pathology workup included concurrent comparison of the salivary gland and colonic tumors, which showed similar histologic features. p63 and CK5/6 immunohistochemistry stain positivity in the colonic tumor confirmed the presence of SCC. CK20 and CDX2 immunostains to exclude a colonic primary adenocarcinoma or adenosquamous carcinoma were negative. In addition, due to the unusual initial presentation of a squamous appearing tumor in the submandibular gland, a MAML2 (