The patient is a 58-year old male who was being evaluated for inguinal hernia repair. His past medical history included CAD with prior stenting of the left circumflex artery, diabetes with a HbA1c of 5.7 and an 80-pack year smoking history. He reported a 37 kg unintentional weight loss over 6 months with postprandial abdominal pain and nausea. In addition, he had exertional angina relieved by rest and sublingual nitrates. He had an abdominal CT scan for evaluation of the hernia, and this demonstrated severe atherosclerotic abdominal aortic disease with occlusion of the origin of the celiac and superior mesenteric arteries and patency of the inferior mesenteric artery. This was confirmed by mesenteric angiography which demonstrated occlusion of the celiac and SMA with a large mesenteric collateral originating from the inferior mesenteric artery (). This artery had a 90% orifice stenosis. With his cardiac history and symptoms, he underwent coronary angiography, which demonstrated significant left main and 3-vessel CAD (). Left ventricular function was preserved with no valvular heart disease by transthoracic echocardiography.
He was referred initially for evaluation for coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) and reported a brief episode of slurred speech in the past 2 months. A carotid duplex was obtained and showed 80–99% left internal carotid artery stenosis and 50–79% right internal carotid artery stenosis. Given his severe symptomatic carotid and mesenteric arterial disease, there would be significantly greater risk of neurological and mesenteric ischemic complications associated with CABG. The decision was made to perform surgical revascularization to address each vascular system in a staged and combined manner.
The patient underwent uncomplicated left carotid endarterectomy and was admitted postoperatively. He had no neurologic complications and was taken for combined CABG and mesenteric bypass on the fourth postoperative day. After induction of anesthesia and placement of hemodynamic monitoring lines, the procedure was initiated with a median sternotomy and mobilization of the left internal mammary artery as a pedicled graft. The greater saphenous vein was harvested endoscopically. After this was performed, a midline laparotomy was performed, extending the sternotomy incision. Dissection was carried