In November 2011, a 21-year-old male was referred from a rural hospital to Sultan Qaboos University Hospital. He had previously been well until a month ago when he had developed a productive cough with yellow sputum associated with chest pain, dyspnea, intermittent fevers, and 10 kg unintentional weight loss. He denied any hemoptysis or night sweats, history of travel, known tuberculosis contact or a family history of malignancy, or tobacco use. He lived in town but spent many of his weekends on his family’s farm with significant livestock exposure.
Upon initial presentation at the rural hospital, his chest X-ray showed an area of cavitation with an air fluid level. He was started on broad spectrum antibiotics and referred to our institute for further evaluation. Unfortunately, he was lost to follow-up before further work-up could be completed. He then presented again in May 2013 with intermittent hemoptysis and continued weight loss. All laboratory studies were within normal limits. An X-ray [] and computed tomography (CT) of his chest [] showed a left lung mid-zone opacity with ill-defined margins with surrounding lung parenchymal changes. A bronchoscopy was performed, which showed thick white secretions from the left lingular bronchus. Sputum, blood, bronchoalveolar lavage fluid, and bacterial and mycobacterial cultures were all negative as well as QuantiFERON test.
Due to an unrevealing work-up and malignancy concerns, the patient underwent a left upper lobectomy due to intraoperative findings of left upper lobe involvement. The histopathology report was negative for malignant cells but showed a cavity with a degenerated worm consistent with the diagnosis of pulmonary EC. An ultrasound of the abdomen was performed to search for concomitant liver cysts, which was negative. The patient was started on a 28-day course of adjuvant albendazole 400 mg twice daily to prevent relapse.
The patient followed closely and he had complete resolution of his symptoms and radiological improvement in his