A 27-year-old male presented to emergency department with 1-week history of cough, left leg swelling, low-grade fever, and streaky hemoptysis. He also had shortness of breath and acute worsening of left leg swelling which has been painful for 2 days. His history was unremarkable and was ambulating well at home. He had no relevant family history and no addiction to tobacco, alcohol, and illicit drugs. On examination he was conscious and oriented, febrile, had tachycardia, and was in minimal respiratory distress with tender erythematous swelling from left ankle to thigh. Systemic examination did not reveal any significant findings.
Complete hemogram revealed leukocytosis. Renal and liver functions were within normal limits. Chest X-ray showed bilateral lower zone haziness. Arterial blood gas analysis showed mild hypoxia. Electrocardiogram showed sinus tachycardia and echocardiography was normal. However, his D-dimer was elevated 2610 ng/mL. Left lower limb venous Doppler showed extensive thrombosis of entire left common femoral, superficial femoral, popliteal vein, posterior tibial vein with superficial extension into proximal great saphenous vein. Therapeutic anticoagulation with intravenous heparin infusion was initiated along with other supportive treatments. In view of underlying DVT and elevated D-dimer levels, CT pulmonary angiogram (CTPA) was done, which showed thrombus in right and left main pulmonary arteries () with extension into inferior and segmental branches. USG abdomen showed right ectopic kidney and workup for connective tissue disease and hypercoagulability status were negative. Hence, MR venography of lower limb was planned but could not be done as the patient had claustrophobia. CT venogram of abdomen and lower limb was done which showed gross compression of distal left common iliac vein by right common iliac artery () for about 1.5 cm in length beyond which thrombosis of left common iliac, external iliac, and femoral veins was noted (), and these features were consistent with MTS.
Patient underwent embolectomy followed by stenting of the left common iliac