A 65-year-old woman was admitted for elective total arthroplasty for osteoarthrosis of the right knee. She had taken 50 µg levothyroxine once daily for ten years, but the detailed indication for this was unknown. With the exception of levothyroxine supplementation and osteoarthrosis, the patient had an unremarkable medical record, with no history of diabetes mellitus, head injury, severe headache, stroke, tumor, or radiation therapy. She had undergone three uncomplicated vaginal deliveries when she was 28, 32, and 35 years of age, and regularly menstruated until natural menopause when 52 years old. She was not on any medications, including over-the-counter medications, or supplements except for the levothyroxine. The patient had not received any steroids either orally, by injection or topically. She had no smoking history and only drank alcohol socially.
On physical examination, the patient’s body mass index was 20.6 kg/m2 (height 146 cm, weight 44 kg), body temperature was 35.9°C, blood pressure was 105/63 mmHg, and heart rate was regular at 72 beats per min. The results of preoperative blood tests were unremarkable (). The patient adhered nil per os after midnight before surgery. At 2 pm on the day of surgery, the patient suffered from dizziness just before entering the operating room. A low blood glucose level of 52 mg/dL was detected. A 10-g dextrose intravenous infusion swiftly resolved the dizziness and a hypoglycemic attack was subsequently diagnosed. Total knee arthroplasty was subsequently performed under general anesthesia with desflurane as scheduled, with an uneventful intraoperative course. However, nausea occurred and persisted after surgery. Although the patient was not given intravenous glucose solution after surgery, she did not report further dizziness and four times daily glucose measurements did not detect hypoglycemia.
On postoperative day 5, the patient was referred to the Department of Internal Medicine for further investigation of the preoperative hypoglycemic attack and the nausea following surgery.