A 42-year-old male patient presented with mild dyspnea and significant dysphagia since 8 months. Gentle exertion and daily routine activities lead to shortness of breath. These symptoms had become worse around the time of his visit and were accompanied by dysphonia, weight loss, and intermittent aspiration. He complained of foreign body sensation. Various physicians failed to make an accurate diagnosis and the symptoms of the patient continued to deteriorate progressively.
The patient had no significant past surgical or medical history other than being a smoker for the past 20 years. There was no abnormality of the tongue and oral cavity including hypopharynx on examination by an otorhinolaryngologist. Clinical examination including neurological examination was normal with no evidence of dysarthria.
No intracranial pathology was seen on magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) brain, done to rule out intracranial pathology. A barium swallow showed that osteophytes were severely protruding at the anterior portion of the 4th–6th cervical spine and displaced the lower pharynx and the proximal esophagus anterosuperiorly. In the oral phase, there was no abnormality other than premature bolus loss. In the pharyngeal phase, esophagus was displaced anterosuperiorly with constriction anterior to C5 vertebra. X-ray and computerized tomography (CT) scan of the cervical spine were done to confirm anterior cervical osteophytes and revealed the formation of large osteophytes anteriorly from 4th to 6th cervical vertebrae [Figures and ]. Osteophyte of the 5th cervical spine was the most prominent. It protruded 11 mm beyond the vertebral border. C-spine MRI was consistent with anterior herniation of the intervertebral disc with ruptured anterior longitudinal ligament. A T2-weighted image revealed high signal intensity with irregular enhancement. This could be a result of retropharyngeal irritation and inflammatory changes.
The patient had developed severe anxiety and sleep disturbances probably due to increasing severity of symptoms and lack of diagnosis. The patient underwent surgical removal of the osteophyte through Smith–Rob