A 37-year-old female patient presented with the chief complaint of swelling in the right side of the palate of 1-month duration associated with dull, intermittent pain. History revealed that the patient had applied rock salt over the swelling to alleviate pain. Medical history revealed that the patient was undergoing infertility treatment for 7 months and had undergone surgery for uterine fibroid 6 years back. There was no history of dry eyes, dry mouth, joint pain or weight loss. The patient was a nonsmoker and nonalcoholic and had no tobacco chewing habits.
On intraoral examination, a single diffuse ovoid swelling measuring approximately 1.5 cm × 1 cm was present on the right side of the posterior hard palate []. The surface of the swelling was predominantly smooth with a focal shallow ulceration in the center. On palpation, the swelling was nontender, soft to firm in consistency and fluctuant. No tooth in the quadrant was tender on percussion. There were no clinical signs of dental caries or periodontal disease.
Intraoral periapical radiograph of the right maxillary first molar and maxillary lateral occlusal radiographs revealed no significant changes. Cone-beam computed tomography of maxilla revealed a soft-tissue shadow in the right side of the hard palate in relation to maxillary right first molar with pressure effect on adjacent bone and thinning of cortical bone with no evidence of breach in the continuity of bone [Figures and ]. There was no periapical lesion in relation to maxillary right premolars and molars. We excluded a palatal abscess or a cyst by clinical and radiographic examination. The ulceration was shallow, associated with a smooth swelling and likely to have been caused by the abrasive effects of rock salt and hence necrotizing sialometaplasia was considered unlikely. Hence, a provisional diagnosis of benign salivary gland tumor or cyst was made with the differentials of malignant salivary gland tumor and nonodontogenic soft-tissue neoplasms.
Under local anesthesia, an excisional biopsy was done and the tissue was sent for routine histopathological evaluation. Hemat