A 50-year-old male patient was referred to a private dental clinic with the complaint of a nonhealing ulcer on his right posterior ventrolateral portion of the tongue in relation to 30 and 31 tooth region (universal system) for the past 3 months. The patient revealed a habit of cigarette smoking for the past 30 years. There was no gross facial asymmetry noticed on extraoral examination. On intraoral examination, an ulceroproliferative lesion, measuring approximately 2 cm × 2 cm with indurated margins, was seen on the right posterior ventrolateral portion of the tongue extending from 30 to 31 tooth region. The surface of the ulcer appeared erythematous with irregular borders and was tender on palpation. Lymph nodes on the right cervical region were palpable, nontender and firm in consistency. Based on the above findings, a clinical impression of carcinoma of the tongue was made. Incisional biopsy was performed, and the specimen was sent for histopathological examination.
Grossing showed two grayish white soft-tissue specimens, firm in consistency with irregular surface. On histopathological examination, the surface epithelium was dysplastic, infiltrating into the underlying connective tissue stroma []. Two distinct components were noticed in the connective tissue, which were in close proximity with each other: the superficial squamous component and the deeper glandular component []. Squamous component revealed malignant squamous epithelial cells arranged in solid nests and islands, resembling typical well-differentiated squamous cell carcinoma with few areas of the island showing keratin pearl formation and individual cell keratinization []. The glandular component revealed squamous cells arranged in ductal pattern with few areas of the ducts showing amorphous eosinophilic intraluminal content []. Special staining with periodic acid–Schiff (PAS) and mucicarmine showed positivity for the intraluminal content and confirmed the secretory nature of the glandular component [Figures and ]. With the above characteristic histological findings, a final diagnosis of ASC was made. Immunohistochemistry was done as an adjunct on the tissue specimen for markers such as pancytokeratin and Ki-67. The