A 74-year-old non-smoker woman was admitted to our hospital for acute confusional state with rapid onset of amnesia and dyspnea in July 2017. She had no significant medical history. Brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scan and a whole-body computed tomography (CT) scan documented a pulmonary mass, mediastinal lymphadenopathies and multiple brain metastases, the largest one of 5.6 cm was in the left temporal lobe. An adenocarcinoma of the lung was diagnosed by biopsy performed via bronchoscopy. Fluorescent in situ hybridization (FISH) analysis of biopsied tumor tissue revealed the presence of ALK gene rearrangement. In August 2017, the patient started the crizotinib treatment after the whole brain radiotherapy. After 3 months, a CT scan showed a partial response of the disease in the chest and brain metastases were stable. After 8 months of the crizotinib therapy, a CT scan confirmed the stable disease for all lesions but it showed the appearance of multilocular cysts in both kidneys, the biggest of 3 cm, and a multilocular cyst starting from the right kidney to the perirenal adipose tissue and the posterior renal fascia (). The patient had an Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) Performance Status 0; serum creatinine, C-reactive protein (CRP) and erythrocyte sedimentation rate were within normal ranges; blood cultures were negative for both bacteria and fungi. Taking into account the clinical benefit, the patient continued the crizotinib treatment. In September 2018 a CT scan confirmed that the disease was stable, but it documented confluent cystic formations bounded by solid walls, extended posteriorly and bilaterally from the kidneys along the perirenal and pararenal spaces: a cyst of 8 cm infiltrated the diaphragm and another one of 12 cm invaded the left iliopsoas muscle; two cystic hepatic lesions with thick walls also appeared, the biggest of 3 cm (). The patient reported abdominal pain. Thus, the therapy was changed from crizotinib to alectinib, a second generation of