A 61-year-old female presented to the emergency room complaining of sharp lower right abdominal pain of 2 days duration; she also admitted to chronic intermittent abdominal pain over the past 2 months. She denied any fever, chills, nausea, vomiting, chest pain or shortness of breath. She did admit to cyclical episodes of diarrhea and constipation. Her past medical history was significant for antiphospholipid antibody with recent stroke and venous sinus thrombosis, lupus and hypothyroidism. Her past surgical history included: caesarian section, total abdominal hysterectomy, laparoscopic cholecystectomy and a total knee replacement. Her family history was negative for any types of inflammatory bowel disorder. Socially, she was married and denied any history of smoking, drug or alcohol use. She took the following medications daily: Coumadin 15 mg, Plaquenil 200 mg and Levothyroxine 25 mcg.
On physical exam, she was noted to be afebrile and normotensive. The abdomen was soft with tenderness to palpation in the right lower quadrant. There were normoactive bowel sounds. Laboratory data demonstrated a white blood count of 5300, a hemoglobin of 14.4 and a hematocrit of 43%. Renal function, electrolytes, liver function and urinalysis were all within normal ranges. Her international normalized ratio was 3.5.
A CT of the abdomen and pelvis without contrast was obtained on admission and revealed a dilated appendix up to 1.5 cm in size with no evidence of obvious appendicolith (). There was evidence of extensive mesenteric edema in the right lower quadrant of the abdomen. It was felt that these findings were consistent with appendicitis with possible early rupture pattern. Due to her history and likely early ruptured appendicitis, she was felt to be a high surgical risk and she was initially treated on the interval appendicitis pathway. This included IV antibiotic therapy and a repeat CT scan of the abdomen/pelvis 48 h after initial presentation. She was also placed on a heparin drip and her Coumadin