A 55-year-old male patient reported to the Department of Oral Medicine and Radiology with the complaint of nasal regurgitation for 2 months and spontaneous exfoliation of the upper teeth and bone fragments. Patient-reported no history of pain or numbness of the upper jaw, however, had history of pus discharge from the upper jaw for 1 month for which he responded to antibiotics and became symptom free. The past medical history revealed treated pulmonary tuberculosis 10 years back, a diabetic for 4 years under irregular medication, a chronic smoker for 25 years. There were no significant findings on general physical examination and extraoral examination. Intraoral examination revealed exposed necrotic alveolar bone extending from maxillary right third molar region and crossing the midline up to to the left maxillary first premolar region [], with yellowish denuded bone in the center of hard palate measuring 2.5 cm × 2.5 cm and soft-tissue necrosis []. Based on the clinical findings, a provisional diagnosis of chronic suppurative osteomyelitis of the maxilla was made with differential diagnosis of mucormycosis and syphilitic gumma.
Radiological investigations with orthopantomogram (OPG) showed ill-defined radiolucency in the alveolar process of entire maxilla with interdental bone loss. There were also multiple missing teeth from maxillary right third molar region and crossing the midline up to the left maxillary first premolar region []. CBCT scan was taken with Field of view 10 × 10 and reconstructions were made in axial, coronal, and sagittal planes. Multiplanar reformation with reformatted OPG was also done. CBCT scan revealed an extensive mixed density lesion involving the entire alveolar process of the maxilla with a moth-eaten appearance. In addition, bilateral breach of the maxillary sinus and floor of nasal cavity by the lesion with soft-tissues intensity of both sinuses suggestive of mucosal thickening and resultant blocked ostium were found [Figure –].
Other investigations revealed fasting blood glucose of 150 mg/