A 67-year-old man presented to the emergency department with syncope.
Seven months prior to this presentation, he was diagnosed with pT3 NX M0 stage III high-grade urothelial carcinoma of the right renal pelvis with peri-neural and peri-vascular invasion. He underwent laparoscopic right nephro-ureterectomy with bladder cuff. Four days after surgery, patient presented to the emergency room with acute severe shortness of breath and hypotension that responded to fluids. Computed tomography angiography (CTA) of the chest revealed extensive filling defects demonstrated in both the distal main pulmonary arteries extending into multiple bilateral upper and lower segmental pulmonary arteries, and low likelihood of right heart strain. Bilateral lower extremity Doppler ultrasonography revealed no evidence of deep vein thrombosis (DVT) in lower extremities. He was started on systemic anticoagulation followed by warfarin bridge. Patient was relatively well until 2 months later, when he developed another episode of acute severe shortness of breath. He was then diagnosed to have new pulmonary embolism while being on warfarin therapy. Patient elected to have inferior vena cava (IVC) filters placed even though there was no Doppler evidence for DVT and anticoagulation was transitioned from warfarin to rivaroxaban. His echo at that time revealed mild pulmonary hypertension without evidence of right heart strain. From the cancer perspective, he was considered to have no evidence of residual disease based on imaging and plan was to manage conservatively with follow-up imaging in 3 months due to intermediate to high risk of recurrence. Patient is a former smoker and quit 20 years prior to this presentation. His brother died of bladder cancer at the age of 50.
Patient presented with another episode of shortness of breath 1 month after starting rivaroxaban. His CTA showed new pulmonary embolus in the right main pulmonary artery with evidence of right heart strain. Due to recurrent pulmonary emboli, his anticoagulation was changed to fondaparinux and aspirin of 325 mg. Patient unfortunately presented 1 month later with worsening shortness of breath, palpitations with