A 67 year old Caucasian female presented to the emergency department of our hospital complaining of dysphagia, pruritus and musculoskeletal pain of the arms. The patient also mentioned chronic musculoskeletal pain and acrocyanosis for which she never sought medical attention.
A careful medical history revealed that she suffers from chronic obstructive pulmonary disorder (COPD) due to long-term smoking, and was under treatment for arterial hypertension. The initial clinical examination showed normal blood pressure (115/72 mmHg), normal heart rate (77 bpm), and no pathological findings during auscultation and palpation of the abdomen. The heart and lungs auscultation did not reveal any pathological findings. Skin redness was noticed on the site of pruritus.
The blood tests did not reveal any significant findings, however the biochemical test yield findings indicative of disrupted hepatic function (). Due to these findings, further testing for HBV and HBC were requested, revealing negative results.
A cancer index test was also performed, showing no signs of neoplasia. Thyroid function test (Free T4, TSH) and thyroid ultrasound revealed no pathology as well. A quantitative immunoglobulins test indicated increased levels of IgA, IgM and IgE ().
A CT scan was performed without intravenous contrast medium due to patient-reported previous allergy. The CT scan did not demonstrate any pathological finding of the liver apart from dilation of intrahepatic bile ducts that was later confirmed sonographically.
Taking into account the pruritus, all the clinical findings and the increased ALP, AST and γGT levels as well, the possibility of PBC was suggested. So, further specialized tests (ANA and AMA tests) were requested that proved positive (), thus confirming the diagnosis of PBC.
Due to the persistent musculoskeletal pain in the arms and the sclerodactyly, Anti-centromere antibodies (ACAs) test was conducted which proved positive. During the investigation of the reported dysphagia the patient underwent gastroscopy () that revealed gastritis and esophageal veins dilation[].
Taking into consideration all