A 67-year-old female presented to our clinic with subtle vague pain in the right premolar region of the mandible, severely mobile adjacent teeth and paresthesia of the right lower lip and chin. The symptoms were perceived about 3–4 weeks previously.
The patient smoked not less than 20 cigarettes/day and her medical history revealed a surgery 12 years previously for a low-grade papillary urothelial carcinoma with complete recovery; no other specific health conditions or any systemic medications taken regularly were reported.
Extraoral examination did not show any abnormality while intraorally a slight swelling of the right lower buccal premolar region was noticed. The overlying mucosa was normal in color but softly tender on palpation.
The adjacent teeth were abnormally loose with the presence of deep pockets and calculus deposits reflecting a severe chronic periodontitis. No regional lymphadenopathy was detected.
A periapical radiograph of the concerned region revealed an ill-defined and non-corticated relatively low-density area with permeative changes, the adjacent teeth were removed, but the symptoms persisted after 2 weeks even though the bone healing was normal. The periapical radiograph taken after extraction exhibited an increased radiolucency in the area [].
The orthopantomograph showed a 2 cm diameter ill-defined and non-corticated slightly radiolucent osteolytic lesion with permeative changes of the right premolar region extending from the canine area to approximately the mesial aspect of the molar area, the lesion also appeared to be extending from the apical area within the alveolar crest to the superior aspect of the basal cortex [].
Cone-beam computed tomography (CBCT) serial cross- sectional of 1 mm thick showed small ill-defined hypodense areas in proximity to the right lower premolar with multiple perforations of the buccal and lingual plates and slight thickening and sclerosis of the buccal cortex [].
The same radiographic features are seen in the axial, sagittal, and frontal views [].
Radiographic features and changes as well as the clinical findings were