A 73-year-old male was referred to our hospital for gradually progressing right lower abdominal pain. His past history included prostate carcinoma with bone metastasis at 60 years of age, and type 2 diabetes mellitus diagnosed at 62 years of age with poor control of the hemoglobin A1c (HbA1c) level measuring 8.0%. Family history revealed that his siblings had type 2 diabetes mellitus and his uncle had gastric cancer. He had a personal history of social alcohol drinking of less than 60 g per day, and smoking of 25 cigarettes per day for 25 years but had quit for over 20 years. Current medications included bicalutamide for prostate carcinoma, metformin, glimepiride and sitagliptin for type 2 diabetes mellitus, and ramelteon, suvorexant, and zolpidem for insomnia.
The vital signs of the patient were stable. Right lower abdominal tenderness was noted without abdominal guarding or rebound tenderness. Laboratory data revealed abnormal liver enzyme levels, and serologic tests were negative for hepatitis B and C (Table ). Esophagogastroduodenoscopy and total colonoscopy revealed no abnormalities except for cecal diverticulum. Ultrasonography revealed a 5.5-cm tumor near the ileocecal junction, while contrast-enhanced computed tomography (CT), and positron emission tomography-CT showed multiple nodules with cystic lesions in the peritoneum, suggesting peritoneal dissemination in addition to the main tumor (Fig. ).
A diagnostic laparoscopy was performed, and a tumor extending from the right lateral abdominal wall with irregular focal protrusion was noted. Multiple brown-colored nodules on the greater omentum, one nodule on the small intestines, and one nodule on the anterior abdominal wall, sharing the same gross appearance, were also noted. Histological examination revealed tumor cells with a relatively abundant cytoplasm and a large area of hyperplasia in a palisading pattern (Fig. ). Small bile droplets were detected in the tumor cells by bile stain. Immunohistochemical staining showed that the tumor cells were positive for alpha methyl