We report the case of a 22-year-old Qatari male presenting with severe oropharyngeal and nasal septum candidiasis and significant weight loss without any associated abdominal symptoms.
He was admitted to Hamad General Hospital (HGH), tertiary care hospital in Doha, Qatar, from a private medical facility following upper gastrointestinal endoscopy (OGD). His chief complaint was moderate to severe odynophagia. OGD confirmed white plaques involving the oropharyngeal cavity. Endoscopic examination of the esophagus and stomach was normal, but the duodenum had features suggestive of erosive duodenitis. A clinical diagnosis of oral candidiasis and duodenitis with no obvious underlying cause was made, and the patient was transferred to HGH for further workup. Detailed history revealed a 4-week history of worsening odynophagia mainly for solids which progressed to fluids in the last 10 days requiring medical attention and hospitalization. He also reported unintentional weight loss of 12 kg over a period of 1 month. There were no associated abdominal symptoms including change in bowel habit, bleeding per rectum, diarrhea or vomiting, mouth or genital ulcers, joint pains or skin rash or ulcers. The patient gave no history of unsafe sexual contact or previous blood transfusion. He denied use of any medications including inhalers in the last few weeks. His past medical history was unremarkable except for an appendectomy in 2017. He did not smoke or drink alcohol. He denied any drug abuse. The patient is a student at an aviation college. On physical examination he was afebrile, had no palpable lymphadenopathy, jaundice or skin rash. His weight on admission was recorded at 61 kg with BMI of 20.9 kg/m2. Oral cavity examination was consistent with severe oropharyngeal candidiasis (Fig. ). Systemic examination was unremarkable. He underwent nasopharyngoscopy which confirmed tongue findings as of OGD but also found patch of thrush on the anterior nasal septum (Fig. ).
His baseline investigations, including complete blood counts,