A 53-year-old female was referred to our spine clinic with complaints of chronic neck pain and stiffness; the left arm pain which radiated down the radial aspect of her arm, forearm, and hand; fixed kyphotic posture of the neck; and difficulty swallowing. She reported sustaining a traumatic neck injury 6 years prior when she was an unrestrained front seat passenger in a stolen car. Apparently, she and the driver of the vehicle were under the influence of methamphetamines when they crashed the vehicle into a tree. Both fled from the scene and did not seek medical treatment for fear of legal consequences. She developed immediate neck pain and neck stiffness. Shortly after, she developed electric-like left arm pain which radiated down the radial aspect of the upper extremity. She was homeless, uninsured, and she feared criminal prosecution as she was injured in the act of committing a felony. She began self-medicating to control her neck pain, using heroin, street bought oral opiates, and alcohol. She purchased a soft cervical collar from a local pharmacy and wore it exclusively for several months. Approximately 6 months after the injury, she noted progressive flexed cervical posture with difficulty maintaining forward gaze. Less than1 year after the accident, she was incarcerated in a local correctional facility for repeated drug convictions. The duration of incarceration was for 10 months with an additional court-ordered 6-month inpatient drug rehabilitation program. During this incarceration, the patient was evaluated for a high degree of global neck pain and deformity. Although imaging was performed in this evaluation, this patient’s cervical subluxation was not diagnosed. On completion of her rehabilitation, she was able to acquire government-assisted health insurance. At that time, the patient sought care from a primary care physician regarding her neck pain and stiffness. Initial attempts at physical therapy were unsuccessful. Outpatient plain cervical radiograph revealed a