A 62-year-old Italian-American male presented to our nationally accredited Breast Center with a history of a prior left breast biopsy at an outside institution for a palpable mass, the pathology of which was unavailable but was reported to be benign by the patient. He also reported long-standing retroareolar masses with new onset of bilateral pink nipple discharge. He denied recent trauma or infection. He had a history of type 2 diabetes managed with metformin and a 20 pack-year cigarette smoking history. He did not have a family history significant for breast cancer or gynecomastia. On physical exam, he had appropriate hygiene, further examination was remarkable for bilateral breast tenderness on palpation without any overlying skin erythema or other local sign of inflammation and 2 × 2 cm bilateral retroareolar masses.
Mammogram demonstrated BIRADS 3 lesions bilaterally (). Ultrasound performed the same day confirmed a 1.5 cm cystic lesion containing debris in the right breast and a 2.1 cm complex cystic and partially solid mass in the left breast (). The presence of nipple discharge prompted bilateral ultrasound-guided core biopsies to rule out underlying malignancy, which revealed benign inflammatory tissue and a foreign body-type giant cell reaction in both lesions without evidence of malignancy (). Microbiology results from biopsy samples grew Staphylococcus lugdunensis.
The pathology and microbiology results were discussed with the patient, and given the symptomatic nature of his presentation and continued nipple discharge, bilateral surgical excision of the masses was planned. During the operative procedure, well-defined cystic lesions were noted. During dissection of the right-sided mass, a small defect was inadvertently created in the cyst wall, and a small larva was noted in this defect. This was sent separately with the specimen. Bilateral tissue specimens were sent for surgical pathology to rule out malignancy. The surgical pathology of both retroareolar masses revealed fibrosis and multinucleated foreign body-type giant cells, deemed non-specific (). The organism was identified as