A 20-year-old Chinese woman, with anemia and thrombocytopenia, was admitted to the Hematology Department of our hospital due to progressive fatigue.
The patient presented with progressive fatigue three months ago, which had significantly worsened in the previous few days. Additionally, she had experienced intermittent knee pain with morning stiffness of both legs for almost six months. She had not seen a doctor until this hospital visit. She attended the emergency department of our hospital and initial laboratory tests showed anemia and severe thrombocytopenia. She was then admitted to the Hematology Department where further laboratory work-up was performed. On the second day of hospitalization, she was transferred to the ICU due to severe respiratory distress and shock.
The patient had no previous medical history.
The patient did not have a history of smoking, drinking or drug abuse.
On physical examination, the patient was pale, awake, alert, responsive to questions and in acute respiratory distress. There was some skin petechiae, indicating a bleeding tendency, but there was no skin rash, oral ulcers, alopecia or enlarged lymph nodes. Her heart rate was 140 bpm, blood pressure was 112/70 mmHg with norepinephrine continuously pumped (0.8 μg/kg/min), respiratory rate was 42 breaths/min, and temperature was 37.6 °C. The oxygen saturation remained at 80% on room air and increased to 94% on a high-flow nasal cannula with FiO2 of 40%. These findings suggested severe circulatory shock and respiratory failure. Heart auscultation showed low heart sounds without murmurs, and there were crackles over both lung fields, indicating heart failure associated with pulmonary edema or pneumonia. Her abdomen was soft and not tender, and the liver and spleen were not palpable. She had joint line tenderness in both knees and mild edema in both lower extremities.
The initial laboratory tests are shown in Table . Blood tests revealed mild leukocytosis 10.71 × 109/L with moderate anemia (hemoglobin 71 g/L