A 66-year-old male patient, with a history of smoking (30 pack-years) and no known medical or surgical history, was admitted in our department for a spontaneously resolved inferior ST elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI). The intra-hospital treatment included enoxaparin 0.6 ml twice a day, clopidogrel 75 mg once a day, aspirin 100 mg once a day, bisoprolol 2.5 mg once a day and atorvastatin 40 mg once a day. The coronary angiogram (performed at day 3 through the right radial artery) showed a severe thrombotic lesion of the distal circumflex. The patient underwent an ad-hoc successful angioplasty of the circumflex with a drug eluting (everolimus) stent. Initial laboratory tests at admission were normal except elevated troponin. Echocardiography showed a 65% left ventricular ejection fraction. The patient was discharged after 5 days of anticoagulation by low molecular weight heparin (enoxaparin). Laboratory tests were not controlled during the hospitalization. The discharge treatment included clopidogrel 75 mg once a day, aspirin 100 mg once a day, bisoprolol 2.5 mg once a day and atorvastatin 40 mg once a day.
One week later, the patient was referred again to our department for both chest and right lower limb pain. The electrocardiogram showed an inferior STEMI and the physical exam of the right lower limb found ischemic signs with absence of the femoral pulse. There was no history of aspirin or clopidogrel discontinuation. An urgent coronary angiogram (performed through the left femoral artery) showed total thrombosis of the circumflex stent (
). The patient underwent a successful primary angioplasty of the circumflex by simple balloon (
). Urgent lower limb contrast-enhanced computed tomography was performed immediately after the angioplasty, revealing total acute thrombosis of the right common femoral artery (
). The patient underwent an urgent successful thrombectomy with Fogarty catheter. Immediate evolution was favorable with total regression of coronary and right lower limb ischemic signs. Laboratory tests showed a marked fall in the platelet count (68,000/