A 30-year-old Caucasian male active duty service member in the United States Army with a history of recurrent sinusitis and multiple childhood pneumonias presented to the pulmonary sub-specialty clinic with a chief complaint of chronic cough since childhood. The patient reported the cough to be productive of yellow-green sputum and worse in the morning. He denied shortness of breath, chest pain, gastrointestinal symptoms or post-nasal drip. His only medication was albuterol which he utilised on average once every 48 h. The patient denied any functional limitations and he noted he was able to perform and pass his biennial military mandated physical fitness assessment, including a two-mile run, without difficulty. The patient had never smoked and denied recreational drug use. There were no significant occupational exposures in his history. He has no family history of cystic fibrosis (CF) or other pulmonary disease. He has a sister who is alive and well with one non-biologic child. The patient was previously married and divorced and he did not have children of his own. Vital signs were normal and his body mass index was 25.8 kg/m2. His clinical exam was unremarkable with no evidence of sinus disease and clear lung sounds amidst frequent coughing.
Over a period of decades, the patient had been evaluated by multiple providers and had been empirically treated for conditions including seasonal allergies, upper airway cough syndrome, reactive airway disease and gastroesophageal reflux without any significant improvement of his cough. He described occasionally disjointed care that often resulted in trials of similar medications with limited effect. The patient noted frustration with his medical care to date and described periods of time where he was lost to follow-up related to his frustration.
Additionally, he had been diagnosed and treated for bacterial pneumonia four times in the past. Of the four episodes, the most severe occurred when he was a teenager. During this illness, he underwent bronchoscopy with bronchoalveolar