A 77-year-old man with right renal calculi measuring 1.0 × 0.8 cm underwent primary ESWL with satisfactory efficacy. Follow-up renal ultrasound showed no remaining calculi. Although he felt pain in the abdomen at the time of ESWL, he paid little attention to it. Five days later, his abdominal pain had worsened and he was admitted to the emergency department. Physical examination showed significant tenderness of the abdomen and high blood pressure of 176/105 mmHg. Enhanced computed tomography (CT) revealed a contained rupture of the abdominal aorta with a retroperitoneal hematoma (33 × 25 mm) around the periaortic area. More remarkably, a disruptive calcified plaque was found at the level between the third and fourth lumbar vertebrae (). The patient reported that his medical history included smoking, hypertension, and diabetes. Liver function, renal function, lipid and blood parameters, and other routine laboratory examination findings were within the reference range.
Preoperative CT angiography demonstrated normal morphology of the abdominal aorta, renal artery, and superior mesenteric artery. Based on the patient’s history and CT results, we suspected rupture of the abdominal aorta after ESWL. We identified the contained rupture, which was essentially a pseudoaneurysm of the abdominal aorta. The size of the hematoma was 33 × 25 mm (). Considering the risk of mortality associated with a ruptured abdominal aorta, we performed endovascular aortic repair. Preoperative preparation included strict bed rest and control of the blood pressure to less than 130/80 mmHg. The surgery was performed in the digital subtraction angiography room under general anesthesia. Open femoral exposure was performed, and a pigtail catheter was inserted to the aorta. Aortic angiography showed the location of the aortic lesions. However, no extravasation of contrast agent was found in the abdominal aorta, possibly because of a minor intimal tear.
Through the right common femoral artery, a 26-26-80-mm Ankura stent graft (Lifetech Scientific Ltd., Shenzhen, China) was placed with its proximal