A 67-year-old man who was a former tobacco smoker (100 pack-year history) presented to our oncology clinic following a diagnosis of Stage IIIa NSCLC. He had a past medical history significant for ulcerative colitis, which was well-controlled on balsalazide with no recent flares. He was initially noted to have a lung nodule on a surveillance computed tomography (CT) scan for abdominal aortic aneurysm. A positron emission tomography (PET) scan was done, which demonstrated a metabolically active right lower lobe lesion measuring 9.1 x 3.9 centimeter with an extension to the hilum. Enlarged right paratracheal lymph nodes were also noted be metabolically active. He underwent endobronchial ultrasound guided fine needle aspiration of the mass and mediastinal lymph nodes. Results were consistent with squamous cell carcinoma with metastases in the lymph nodes. The pathological diagnosis was T3N2M0 stage IIIa squamous cell lung carcinoma. PET scan at the time did not demonstrate any evidence of extra thoracic metastatic disease and therefore he was advised to undergo neoadjuvant chemotherapy followed by restaging of mediastinum for consideration of curative surgical resection. The patient was deemed to be of good functional status and started on paclitaxel, carboplatin. After a single course of chemotherapy, he was hospitalized with near fatal sepsis. He was treated with intravenous (IV) vancomycin and Zosyn, followed by levofloxacin to complete a fourteen- day course. Following his recovery, his case was discussed at our institutional tumor board and given the severe toxicity and low likelihood chemotherapy would make him operable, the patient was started on a course of concurrent chemoradiation. He tolerated this treatment well until the end of his six-week course when he developed febrile neutropenia and was found to have C. difficile colitis. He was treated with IV cefepime, followed by Augmentin to complete a ten-day course as well as fourteen days of oral vancomycin. CT scan during this hospitalization showed a new liver lesion, which was proven by biopsy to be metastatic squamous cell