A 50-year-old male patient presented to our department with a 6-month history of increasing epigastric pain with no radiation, vomiting, and unexplained weight loss of 6 kg. His past medical, surgical, and familial histories were unremarkable, especially for malignancy. He had no habits of alcohol intake or tobacco consumption. He had a good socioeconomic status.
At presentation, the patient had a good general condition and his BMI was within the standard range (BMI = 22.8 kg/m2). He was hemodynamically stable with blood pressure of 130/70 mm Hg, pulse rate of 74 beats per minute, and body temperature of 37.5°C.
On physical examination, the abdomen was soft with localized tenderness at the right upper quadrant. No abdominal mass or palpable pathologic lymph nodes were noted. There were no signs of portal hypertension or ascites. His routine laboratory tests on admission did not show any abnormal findings. His liver function tests and serum albumin (42 g/L) were within normal limits.
Upper gastrointestinal endoscopy was performed and revealed an ulcero-infiltrative growth in the antrum occluding the pylorus. There were no esophageal or gastric varices. Histopathologic examination showed poorly differentiated adenocarcinoma. There were no Helicobacter pylori or intestinal metaplasia.
For staging purposes, an abdominal CT scan was performed and showed irregular wall thickening of the antral wall and the pyloric channel associated with lymph nodes along the lesser curvature of the stomach (Fig. ). There was a hypervascular mass lesion in the hepatic segment VIII (50 × 30 mm) with enhancement during the arterial phase and washout during the venous phase, adjacent to the hepatic veins and the inferior vena cava, suggesting the diagnosis of HCC with no imaging features of livercirrhosis.CT scan of the chest showed normal lungs, heart, and pleural spaces, and no evidence of metastatic lesions or lymphadenopathy.
Serological tests revealed absence of hepatitis B and C antigens. AFP and carcinoembryonic antigen levels were normal.