A 32-year-old right handed man presented to the emergency room with persistent dizziness and neck pain for the past 3 days. He was discharged home 1 month prior after being diagnosed with a cerebellar infarction secondary to a spontaneous right vertebral artery dissection (Fig. , , ). The clinical presentation of the first event was headaches associated with dizziness and right beating nonpersistent horizontal nystagmus. He reported to occasionally cracking his neck during his initial admission but reported not cracking his neck during his second admission. His family history was pertinent for a spontaneous left cervical carotid dissection in his mother at the age of 41 years. He had no history of illicit drug use, alcohol abuse, or cigarette smoking. General examination was normal. No abnormal body habitus. No blue sclera. No skin abnormalities like cutaneous xanthomas or other abnormalities suggestive of connective tissue disease were observed. The neurologic examination during his second admission was normal and symptoms of neck pain and dizziness resolved within 24 h. Neuroimaging studies performed during his second admission included MRI of the brain and MRA of the head/neck initially and then followed by CTA of the head and neck. MRI brain during his second admission showed no evidence of recurrent cerebral or cerebellar infarction; however, MRA of the head showed an intracranial vertebral artery narrowing most consistent with arterial dissection on the left and recanalization of the previously seen right vertebral dissection during his prior admission (Fig. , ). Additional investigations including lipid profile hemoglobin A1C, and other routine testing were within reference laboratory values. He had further testing, including alpha-1 antitrypsin levels, CTA of the renal arteries, genetic testing for COAL3A4 (vascular Ehlers-Danlos), and homocysteine levels that were all unremarkable. Antinuclear antibody screen test was negative (test performed using HEP 2 cells and screened at 1:40 dilution); however, anti-RNP (ribonucleoprotein) antibodies were 38 units (normal reference range: <20 units). Rheumatology revalu