A 75-year-old woman presented to a surgical outpatients clinic with a 6-month history of a lump in the right temporal area, occasionally tender and slowly increasing in size. She denied any hearing or visual symptoms and had no previous history of malignant melanoma or the presence of any melanocytic skin lesion. However, she reported an episode of trauma to the right temporal area ~6 months previously. She is hypertensive, asthmatic and an ex-smoker.
On examination, the patient had a 4-cm non-tender slightly fluctuant non-pulsatile mass over the right temporal area, clinically suggestive of a lipoma. On examination, there were no melanocytic naevi on the overlying and surrounding skin, and fundoscopy was normal. Blood investigations were within normal limits, except for thyroid function tests, which were suggestive of hypothyroidism. Computed tomography (CT) imaging of the head, neck and thorax demonstrated a 2 × 4 x 4 cm well-defined subcutaneous enhancing soft tissue formation in the right temporal fossa (). There was no cervical lymphadenopathy and no lung consolidation or suspicious lung nodules.
At excision of the lesion under local anaesthesia, a collection of dark semi-solid material within the temporalis muscle, resembling a haematoma, was noted and sent for histological analysis. She underwent primary closure of the wound, with intraoperative insertion of a drain that was removed the following day prior to discharge.
The patient was followed up at the surgical outpatients clinic (). Histology confirmed that the tissue was composed of atypical, heavily pigmented melanocytes and was negative for BRAFV600 mutation (). She was referred for review by an oncologist and a dermatologist. A positron emission tomography–computed tomography (PET–CT) scan showed a sizeable focus of abnormal increased uptake in the right temporalis region with no other evidence of abnormal tracer accumulation. She was later started on nivolumab for Stage 4 melanoma, but within 4 months was noted to have developed local progression of disease and new