A 55-year-old man, a recycler, smoker, and alcoholic, without known comorbidities, was referred to the neurosurgery division with a history of a single epileptic seizure 1 week before hospital admission followed by progressive right-sided hemiparesis. On initial evaluation, muscle strength was graded as III and IV in the proximal and distal right upper limb, respectively, and IV in the right lower limb. There was also tactile hypoesthesia in the right hemibody. On visual examination, the patient’s remaining teeth were in a very bad hygienic condition, and most of them were missing. Head computed tomography (CT) and brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) showed an intra-axial expansive lesion affecting the left parietal lobe, associated with extensive edema and a regional compressive effect producing slight subfalcine herniation. A pyogenic abscess was the main diagnostic hypothesis and given the poor oral condition and lack of other findings, the primary infection site was presumed to be odontogenic.
Antibiotic therapy (ceftazidime + metronidazole + vancomycin) and administration of dexamethasone were then initiated. Approximately 10 days later, the patient developed a high fever followed by one generalized tonic-clonic seizure despite the use of phenytoin. Within a few hours, he suffered a cardiopulmonary arrest and only returned to spontaneous circulation after 38 min of cardiopulmonary resuscitation and was admitted to the ICU, where he managed regain consciousness overtime, while maintaining previous deficits and radiologic findings.
After a new brain MRI showed lesion growth despite the antibiotic therapy for 40 days, stereotactic surgical treatment was indicated and successfully performed, but the histopathological analysis was inconclusive. A control CT scan showed a small reduction in perilesional edema and signs of a remnant lesion.
The patient was discharged without antibiotic therapy after 3 months of hospitalization and maintained clinical stability in a follow-up evaluation 20 days later with mild improvement in the right hemibody strength and a single focal seizure episode.
Three months later, the patient returned with an increase in the