A 52-year-old woman weighing 50 kg, 168 cm height with body mass index of 29, presented to orthopedic clinic with complaints of generalized bone pain and low back pain. She developed low back pain 7 years before presentation which she had been managing with over-the-counter drugs. Pain does not radiate to any part of the body. There was no history of trauma before the onset of the pain. There was no associated fever, weight loss, loss of appetite, nor weakness of the lower limbs. Low back pain progressively got worse before she decided to present at the orthopedic clinic. There was mild cough productive of whitish sputum. She was treated with analgesic, antibiotics, and other drugs and she got better. Prior to development of the back pain, she occasionally had generalized bone/body pain, for which she took over-the-counter drugs each time. Due to the repeated presentation to orthopedic clinic with bone pain for which no other cause was found in addition to the incidental finding of anemia, hemoglobin genotype was requested for which reported hemoglobin SS by electrophoretic method. The patient was subsequently referred to hematology clinic for follow-up/expert management. Further investigation was subsequently done with high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) which confirmed SCA.
The patient had cholecystectomy in 2011 due to calculous cholecystitis. She is 6 years postmenopausal. Her first confinement was in 1990, pregnancy was uneventful, and she was delivered of a female baby. The second pregnancy was in 1995, and she had miscarriage at 8-week gestational age. Third and fourth (last) confinement was in 1996 and 1999, respectively. Pregnancy was uneventful although the 3rd baby (male baby) died at the age of 2 years from diarrhea disease according to her. The deliveries were all through spontaneous vortex delivery, no cesarean section was done. The patient had never received blood transfusion. All the pregnancies were managed in a maternity home. Her level of education is primary school. She is a civil servant working