A 47-year-old man reported to the emergency department (ED) with the complaint of continuous abdominal pain in right upper quadrant (RUQ) radiated to right shoulder. The onset of pain was 24 hours prior to arrival at the ED. He had a history of 10 pack/year smoking but had no history of alcohol consumption. He also reported two episodes of similar abdominal pain in RUQ with a continuous pattern in the past year. He underwent supportive treatment with a sonography report of chronic cholecystitis. His past medical and drug history were unremarkable. In review of systems, there was no further complaint except abdominal pain. On initial evaluation he was afebrile (axillary temperature of 37.1°C) with blood pressure of 120/85 mmHg, pulse rate of 85 per minute, and respiratory rate of 10 per minute. There was no evidence of icterus. In abdominal examination, on light palpation there was moderate tenderness in RUQ and epigastric region. Murphy’s sign was negative. There was no evidence of organomegaly and no palpable mass was detected. Laboratory results showed white blood cell count of 5600/µL with 60% polymorphonuclear, amylase level of 63 U/L (normal range of below 100 U/L) and normal liver and renal function tests. The patient underwent ultrasonography with primary diagnosis of biliary colic. Sonographic findings included gallbladder with thick edematous wall, free fluid around and a number of stones inside and also bile ducts with normal diameter. According to these findings the patient was transferred to the operating room for laparoscopic cholecystectomy after hydration and initiation of intravenous antibiotic. Due to the inability to detect the gallbladder during laparoscopy, laparotomy with Kocher incision was done. The gallbladder was not detectable even after laparotomy and a mass was seen and palpated in right lobe of liver. The laparotomy was ended after lavage of abdominal cavity and placing a surgical drain without any further action. Afterward a gastroenterology consult was requested and the