A 63-year-old Caucasian male presented with a 3-year history of ulcerating lesion involving the left cheek and parotid gland. Three years ago, he started to have slow-growing lesion arising from a nonhealing wound that occurred after a left cheek traumatic injury by a tree branch. The lesion was neglected until it started to increase rapidly in size over the last 5 months when he sought treatment. He reported associated left-sided hearing loss, weakness in eye closing, and mandibular weakness, all on the left side. He denied weight loss, trismus, or any lymphadenopathy.
The patient lived in California and had excessive sunlight exposure before he moved to Arkansas, where he received treatment. He has a past medical history of asthma, and cSCC of the right cheek required Mohs surgery. He reported no medications use or allergies. He denied tobacco, alcohol, or recreational drug use or any occupational chemical exposure. No history of immunocompromised status or immunosuppressive therapy reported. The patient’s mother died from colon cancer at age 46, and his brother had a history of melanoma.
On physical examination, there was an extensive bleeding fungating growth overlying the left cheek, extended to the left helix root and tragus [Figure –]. The lesion hung over the external auditory meatus, which was intact. The tympanic membrane was intact. There was no significant submandibular or cervical lymphadenopathy. He had pale conjunctivae. The remainder of his physical examination was unremarkable.
The patient was evaluated initially by a dermatologist, and his lesion biopsy showed poorly differentiated SCC. Given his extensive and high-risk SCC, he was referred to a head and neck surgeon. The computed tomography (CT) scan of the head and neck showed an extracapsular invasion in the soft tissues of the muscles of mastication and the zygomatic arch []. For the staging workup, the patient underwent a positron emission tomography/computed tomography (PET/CT) scan, which showed