A 29-year-old man with a history of exercise-induced asthma (not requiring treatment for 10 years) and obesity (body mass index 39) presented to the emergency room in respiratory distress with evidence of systemic inflammatory response syndrome. His history was pertinent for heavy e-cigarette use for the previous 2 years. Of note, he admitted that he previously smoked ~1–2 packs of cigarettes and 0.5 g of cannabis per day from ages 19 to 27 but quit both of those when he started vaping. He admitted to owning 12 different vaping pens, 8 of which were used for nicotine and 4 for THC. He used a variety of flavors and estimated that he went through a 30-ml bottle every 7–10 days. He also reported that 5 days prior to the onset of symptoms, he tried a new branded vaping product that contained THC. Two days prior to presentation, he experienced rigors with associated nausea and several episodes of emesis. Despite cessation from all vaping activities, he became increasingly dyspneic with shortness of breath with minor activity prompting him to seek emergent evaluation. Upon presentation, he demonstrated evidence of hypoxemic respiratory distress with severe tachypnea with increased work of breathing and mild accessory muscle use. He reported coughing bouts with deep inhalation and associated production of white frothy sputum. He denied hemoptysis, chest pain, recent illness, travel or sick contacts. His examination was significant for tachycardia, tachypnea and distant breathing sounds with fine crackles in bilateral lung fields. An electrocardiogram showed sinus tachycardia (heart rate 115) with no ST-segment changes. Chest radiograph showed diffuse pulmonary infiltrates bilaterally (). Laboratory evaluation demonstrated an elevated white blood cell count of 19.5 cells/μl (the cell differentials by percentage were all within normal range and there was no eosinophilia present). Troponin was negative, and both brain natriuretic peptide and D-dimer were not significantly elevated (82