An intubated 60-year-old man was urgently transferred by air from a rural hospital to our emergency department as a possible case of CNS infection necessitating intensive care treatment in a higher-level tertiary hospital. The patient’s history showed acute onset of fever up to 38.5°C accompanied by rigor, neck stiffness, vomiting and confusion lasting 3 days. He had initially presented to the emergency department of a rural hospital, where he underwent basic laboratory evaluation. An emergent computed tomography (CT) brain scan did not demonstrate any abnormal findings. The patient was considered for a lumbar puncture due to marked nuchal rigidity. Since the blood tests revealed a mild increase in INR and the rural hospital lacked neurosurgical facilities, cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) examination was temporarily postponed and the patient was administered an intravenous dose of ceftriaxone within the first hour of medical contact. The patient’s mental status rapidly deteriorated and it was decided to intubate him for airway protection. The patient was then admitted to our hospital a few hours after intubation. The patient had a 10-year history of PRP, a bilateral saphenectomy 10 years previously for venous insufficiency of the lower extremities, and frequent episodes of herpes simplex virus infections (herpes labialis) since childhood. He quit smoking several years ago and drinks alcohol only on rare social occasions. The patient’s PRP was initially managed with acitretin and topical steroids. After 6 years of treatment and because of repeated skin lesion relapses, the patient’s dermatologist decided to escalate treatment with the addition of subcutaneous injections of ustekinumab 45 mg at week 0 and week 4 and every 12 weeks thereafter. The patient had regular medical check-ups every 6 months, with no abnormal findings in the most recent laboratory work-up () 2 months previously.
Additionally, pre-treatment tests for latent mycobacterium tuberculosis infection, viral hepatitis (HBV, HCV) and human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) were all negative. The patient had